docs/manage/security/saml/set-up-adfs-authenticate-users.md, before:

---
id: set-up-adfs-authenticate-users
title: Set Up ADFS to Authenticate Sumo Logic Users
description: Learn how to use ADFS to authenticate Sumo Logic users.
---

:::important
Sumo Logic provides this information about configuring ADFS as a courtesy to customers. These instructions apply to ADFS, which is a Microsoft product, and is NOT supported by Sumo Logic. If you have any issues regarding these instructions, refer to the Microsoft ADFS documentation or Microsoft support services https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb897402.asp.
:::

Have the values available that you configured in Sumo Logic. See [Set Up SAML for Single Sign-On](set-up-saml.md) for instructions on configuring Sumo Logic for SAML.  

To configure ADFS to authenticate Sumo Logic users, perform the following tasks. 

## Add Relying Party Trust

The relying party trust configuration is required for the connection between Sumo Logic and ADFS.

1. Complete the provisioning steps in [Set Up SAML for Single Sign-On](set-up-saml.md).
1. Open the ADFS Management application, select the Relying Party Trusts folder, and select **Actions > Add a new Standard Relying Party Trust** to open the wizard. Click **Start**. 

    ![Add relying party trust](/img/security/adfs01.png)
1. In the **Select Data Source** window, select **Enter Data About the Party Manually** and click **Next**.

    ![Enter data manually](/img/security/adfs02.png)
1. In the **Specify Display Name** window, enter a display name and notes (optional), and click **Next**.

    ![Display name and notes](/img/security/adfs03.png)
1. In the **Choose Profile** window, select **AD FS profile** and click **Next**.

    ![AD FS profile](/img/security/adfs04.png)
1. In the **Configure Certificate** window, keep the default certificate settings and click **Next**.

    ![Default settings](/img/security/adfs05.png)
1. In the **Configure URL** window, select **Enable Support for the SAML 2.0 WebSSO protocol**. In the **Relying Party SAML 2.0 SSO service URL** field, enter the value of the ****SP Initiated Login Configuration**** POST URL from the Sumo SAML configuration, and click **Next**.

    ![Enable support](/img/security/adfs06.png)
1. In the **Configure Identifiers** window, enter a relying party trust identifier, including the subdomain that identifies the Sumo service endpoint you use. For example: * service.us2.sumologic.com * service.eu.sumologic.com    

    ![Trust identifier](/img/security/secu_trust_config_identifiers_vault.jpeg)
1. (Optional) If you want to configure multi-factor authentication, refer to ADFS documentation for instructions. If not, keep the default selection **I do not want to configure**. Click **Next**.

    ![Confirm](/img/security/adfs08.png)
1. In the **Choose Issuance Authorization Rules** window, select **Permit all users to access this relying party**. If you prefer to limit access to a subset of all ADFS authenticated users, select **Deny all users access to this relying part**, then create an issuance authorization rule that allows only that subset of users based on group membership.  Click **Next**. 

    ![Permit all users](/img/security/adfs09.png)
1. Review your settings, keep the check box selected, and then click **Close** to exit and move to the next task, where you will specify claim rules.

    ![Close](/img/security/adfs10.png)

## Create claim rules

After creating the relying party trust, create the claim rules and update the relying party trust as needed. The editing interface opens automatically when you complete the **Relying Party Trust** wizard.

The claim rule requires an Email Attribute in the assertion, either the SAML Subject or another SAML attribute per the SAML configuration. The value of the Email Attribute must be a valid email address. It is used to uniquely identify the user in the organization.

Sumo Logic only validates that the email address format is valid, not that the email address actually exists during login. Using a nonexistent email address will work, but will reduce the ability of the user to receive some system notifications and access third-party services that require the user to verify email address ownership.

To create claim rules:

1. In the **Edit Claim Rules** window, click **Add Rule**.   

    ![Claim rules](/img/security/claim01.png)
1. In the **Select Rule Template** window, select the **Send LDAP Attributes as Claims** template and click **Next**.   

    ![Add rule](/img/security/claim02.png)
1. In the **Edit Rule** window:

    1. Enter a name for the claim rule.
    1. Select **Active Directory** as the attribute store.
    1. Select **E-Mail Addresses** for both the LDAP attribute and outgoing claim type.
    1. If you set up on-demand provisioning when configuring Sumo SAML, you should also map the LDAP attributes **Given Name** and **Surname.  Select** "Given Name" and "Surname" from the dropdown and then ADFS will correctly send claim types.
    1. Select Click **OK** to save the rule.

    ![Active directory](/img/security/ldap4a.png)
1. Click **Add Rule** to create another rule. Select **Transform an Incoming Claim** as the template and click **Next**.

    ![Add rule](/img/security/claim04.png)
1. Enter a name for the claim rule, and specify the following settings:

   * **Incoming Claim Type.** Select Email Address.
   * **Outgoing Claim Type**. Select Name ID.
   * **Outgoing Name ID Format**: Select Email.
   * Click the **Pass through all claim values** option.    

    ![Pass all claims](/img/security/claim05.png)
1. Click **OK** to save the settings and **OK** again to close the rule editing window.

## Adjusting the trust settings

There are a few relying party trust settings that aren’t accessible through the wizard.

1. To specify these settings, select the relying party trust entry in the ADFS Management application and select **Actions > Properties**.

1. On the **Identifiers** tab, enter a display name. Enter your relying party identifier and click **Add**.

    ![Add](/img/security/trust01.png)

1. On the **Endpoints** tab, add the **SAML Assertion Consumer Endpoint URL** to point to the Assertion Consumer URL that the Sumo Logic SAML configuration specifies. For example: `https://service.us2.sumologic.com/sumo/saml/consume/1234567890`

    ![SumoEndpoints-4.png](/img/security/SumoEndpoints-4.png)

1. The new endpoint appears on the **Endpoints** tab.

    ![SumoEndpoints-6.png](/img/security/SumoEndpoints-6.png)

1. On the **Endpoints** tab, click to add a new endpoint.

   * **Endpoint type**. Select "SAML Logout".
   * **Binding.** Select "POST".
   * **Trusted URL**: Create a URL, composed of:
     * The URL of your ADFS server.
     * The ADFS SAML endpoint, typically '/adfs/ls'
     * The string '?wa=wsignout1.0'
   * The resulting URL should have a format like this: `https://adfs.myserver.tld/adfs/ls/?wa=wsignout1.0`
   * Leave the **Response URL** blank.

1. Click **OK** to complete and save your changes.

## Test ADFS SSO 

You can now test the ADFS SSO implementation by attempting to log in
from the login URL. If you have any trouble, return to Sumo Logic and
perform the following steps:

1. Choose **Administration > Security > SAML**.
1. Select the **Debug Mode** check box and click **Save**.
1. Test again.

Commit message:

Update ADFS SAML config help (#2907)
* Update set-up-adfs-authenticate-users.md

Update instructions with the appropriate Sumo SAML URLs for assertion consumer and entity ID.

* Update docs/manage/security/saml/set-up-adfs-authenticate-users.md

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/manage/security/saml/set-up-adfs-authenticate-users.md, after:

---
id: set-up-adfs-authenticate-users
title: Set Up ADFS to Authenticate Sumo Logic Users
description: Learn how to use ADFS to authenticate Sumo Logic users.
---

:::important
Sumo Logic provides this information about configuring ADFS as a courtesy to customers. These instructions apply to ADFS, which is a Microsoft product, and is NOT supported by Sumo Logic. If you have any issues regarding these instructions, refer to the Microsoft ADFS documentation or Microsoft support services https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb897402.asp.
:::

Have the values available that you configured in Sumo Logic. See [Set Up SAML for Single Sign-On](set-up-saml.md) for instructions on configuring Sumo Logic for SAML.  

To configure ADFS to authenticate Sumo Logic users, perform the following tasks. 

## Add Relying Party Trust

The relying party trust configuration is required for the connection between Sumo Logic and ADFS.

1. Complete the provisioning steps in [Set Up SAML for Single Sign-On](set-up-saml.md).
1. Open the ADFS Management application, select the Relying Party Trusts folder, and select **Actions > Add a new Standard Relying Party Trust** to open the wizard. Click **Start**. 

    ![Add relying party trust](/img/security/adfs01.png)
1. In the **Select Data Source** window, select **Enter Data About the Party Manually** and click **Next**.

    ![Enter data manually](/img/security/adfs02.png)
1. In the **Specify Display Name** window, enter a display name and notes (optional), and click **Next**.

    ![Display name and notes](/img/security/adfs03.png)
1. In the **Choose Profile** window, select **AD FS profile** and click **Next**.

    ![AD FS profile](/img/security/adfs04.png)
1. In the **Configure Certificate** window, keep the default certificate settings and click **Next**.

    ![Default settings](/img/security/adfs05.png)
1. In the **Configure URL** window, select **Enable Support for the SAML 2.0 WebSSO protocol**. In the **Relying Party SAML 2.0 SSO service URL** field, enter the value of the **Assertion Consumer** URL from the Sumo SAML configuration, and click **Next**.

    ![Enable support](/img/security/adfs06.png)
1. In the **Configure Identifiers** window, add the **Entity ID** URL from the Sumo SAML configuration as a relying party trust identifier.    

    ![Trust identifier](/img/security/secu_trust_config_identifiers_vault.jpeg)
1. (Optional) If you want to configure multi-factor authentication, refer to ADFS documentation for instructions. If not, keep the default selection **I do not want to configure**. Click **Next**.

    ![Confirm](/img/security/adfs08.png)
1. In the **Choose Issuance Authorization Rules** window, select **Permit all users to access this relying party**. If you prefer to limit access to a subset of all ADFS authenticated users, select **Deny all users access to this relying part**, then create an issuance authorization rule that allows only that subset of users based on group membership.  Click **Next**. 

    ![Permit all users](/img/security/adfs09.png)
1. Review your settings, keep the check box selected, and then click **Close** to exit and move to the next task, where you will specify claim rules.

    ![Close](/img/security/adfs10.png)

## Create claim rules

After creating the relying party trust, create the claim rules and update the relying party trust as needed. The editing interface opens automatically when you complete the **Relying Party Trust** wizard.

The claim rule requires an Email Attribute in the assertion, either the SAML Subject or another SAML attribute per the SAML configuration. The value of the Email Attribute must be a valid email address. It is used to uniquely identify the user in the organization.

Sumo Logic only validates that the email address format is valid, not that the email address actually exists during login. Using a nonexistent email address will work, but will reduce the ability of the user to receive some system notifications and access third-party services that require the user to verify email address ownership.

To create claim rules:

1. In the **Edit Claim Rules** window, click **Add Rule**.   

    ![Claim rules](/img/security/claim01.png)
1. In the **Select Rule Template** window, select the **Send LDAP Attributes as Claims** template and click **Next**.   

    ![Add rule](/img/security/claim02.png)
1. In the **Edit Rule** window:

    1. Enter a name for the claim rule.
    1. Select **Active Directory** as the attribute store.
    1. Select **E-Mail Addresses** for both the LDAP attribute and outgoing claim type.
    1. If you set up on-demand provisioning when configuring Sumo SAML, you should also map the LDAP attributes **Given Name** and **Surname.  Select** "Given Name" and "Surname" from the dropdown and then ADFS will correctly send claim types.
    1. Select Click **OK** to save the rule.

    ![Active directory](/img/security/ldap4a.png)
1. Click **Add Rule** to create another rule. Select **Transform an Incoming Claim** as the template and click **Next**.

    ![Add rule](/img/security/claim04.png)
1. Enter a name for the claim rule, and specify the following settings:

   * **Incoming Claim Type.** Select Email Address.
   * **Outgoing Claim Type**. Select Name ID.
   * **Outgoing Name ID Format**: Select Email.
   * Click the **Pass through all claim values** option.    

    ![Pass all claims](/img/security/claim05.png)
1. Click **OK** to save the settings and **OK** again to close the rule editing window.

## Adjusting the trust settings

There are a few relying party trust settings that aren’t accessible through the wizard.

1. To specify these settings, select the relying party trust entry in the ADFS Management application and select **Actions > Properties**.

1. On the **Identifiers** tab, enter a display name. Enter your relying party identifier and click **Add**.

    ![Add](/img/security/trust01.png)

1. On the **Endpoints** tab, add the **SAML Assertion Consumer Endpoint URL** to point to the Assertion Consumer URL that the Sumo Logic SAML configuration specifies. For example: `https://service.us2.sumologic.com/sumo/saml/consume/1234567890`

    ![SumoEndpoints-4.png](/img/security/SumoEndpoints-4.png)

1. The new endpoint appears on the **Endpoints** tab.

    ![SumoEndpoints-6.png](/img/security/SumoEndpoints-6.png)

1. On the **Endpoints** tab, click to add a new endpoint.

   * **Endpoint type**. Select "SAML Logout".
   * **Binding.** Select "POST".
   * **Trusted URL**: Create a URL, composed of:
     * The URL of your ADFS server.
     * The ADFS SAML endpoint, typically '/adfs/ls'
     * The string '?wa=wsignout1.0'
   * The resulting URL should have a format like this: `https://adfs.myserver.tld/adfs/ls/?wa=wsignout1.0`
   * Leave the **Response URL** blank.

1. Click **OK** to complete and save your changes.

## Test ADFS SSO 

You can now test the ADFS SSO implementation by attempting to log in
from the login URL. If you have any trouble, return to Sumo Logic and
perform the following steps:

1. Choose **Administration > Security > SAML**.
1. Select the **Debug Mode** check box and click **Save**.
1. Test again.
