docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/use-url-to-run-search.md, before:

---
id: use-url-to-run-search
title: Use a URL to Run a Search
description: You can create a custom URL to launch a log search in Sumo Logic.
---

You can create a custom URL to launch a log search in Sumo Logic.

## Syntax

```
https://<endpoint>/ui/#/search/create?query=<urlEncodedQuery>&startTime=<start>&endTime=<end>
```

* `<endpoint>` is your Sumo Logic service endpoint. See [Sumo Logic Endpoints and Firewall Security](/docs/api/getting-started#sumo-logic-endpoints-by-deployment-and-firewall-security) for the endpoint URLs.
* `<urlEncodedQuery>` is the text of your log search query in URL encoded format.
* `<start>` is the start of your log query time range, the value can be either:

    * in milliseconds since epoch.
    * a [relative time range
        expression](../search-basics/time-range-expressions.md).

* `<end>` is the end of your log query time range, the value can be either:

    * in milliseconds since epoch.
    * a [relative time range expression](../search-basics/time-range-expressions.md).  You can omit the `<end>` value and the current time (`now`) is assumed.

## Example

Create a URL for the following log query, using a relative time range expression of `-10w` to `-1w`.:

```sql
test query | count by _source
```

The custom URL that launches this log query in the Sumo Logic Search page would be similar to the following. The exact URL would depend on your Sumo Logic account endpoint, as listed in [Sumo Logic Endpoints and Firewall Security](/docs/api/getting-started#sumo-logic-endpoints-by-deployment-and-firewall-security). 

```
https://service.sumologic.com/ui/#/search/create?query=test%20query%20%7C%20count%20by%20_source&startTime=-10w&endTime=-1w
```

Commit message:

Update Search URL to include parameterized search (#2866)
* Update Search URL to include parameterized search

This update adds the documentation around existing capability of Search URL to support Parameterized Search

* Update docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/use-url-to-run-search.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/use-url-to-run-search.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/use-url-to-run-search.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/use-url-to-run-search.md, after:

---
id: use-url-to-run-search
title: Use a URL to Run a Search
description: You can create a custom URL to launch a log search in Sumo Logic.
---

You can create a custom URL to launch a log search in Sumo Logic.

## Syntax

```
https://<endpoint>/ui/#/search/create?query=<urlEncodedQuery>&parameters=<param1:value1,param2:value2,param3=value3,...,paramN=valueN>&startTime=<start>&endTime=<end>
```

* `<endpoint>` is your Sumo Logic service endpoint. See [Sumo Logic Endpoints and Firewall Security](/docs/api/getting-started#sumo-logic-endpoints-by-deployment-and-firewall-security) for the endpoint URLs.
* `<urlEncodedQuery>` is the text of your log search query in URL encoded format.
* `<param1:value1,param2:value2,param3=value3,...,paramN=valueN>` is the query parameter part of a templatized query and the corresponding value for the query parameter. 
* `<start>` is the start of your log query time range, the value can be either:

    * in milliseconds since epoch.
    * a [relative time range
        expression](../search-basics/time-range-expressions.md).

* `<end>` is the end of your log query time range, the value can be either:

    * in milliseconds since epoch.
    * a [relative time range expression](../search-basics/time-range-expressions.md).  You can omit the `<end>` value and the current time (`now`) is assumed.

## Examples

### Standard query URL

Create a URL for the following log query, using a relative time range expression of `-10w` to `-1w`.:

```sql
test query | count by _source
```

The custom URL that launches this log query in the Sumo Logic Search page would be similar to the following. The exact URL would depend on your Sumo Logic account endpoint, as listed in [Sumo Logic Endpoints and Firewall Security](/docs/api/getting-started#sumo-logic-endpoints-by-deployment-and-firewall-security). 

```
https://service.sumologic.com/ui/#/search/create?query=test%20query%20%7C%20count%20by%20_source&startTime=-10w&endTime=-1w
```
### Templatized query URL

Create a URL for the following log query, using a relative time range expression of `-60m` to `-30m`.:

```sql
{{app_name}} error | count
```

Assuming that user selects `billing` app from the list of apps, the final query is : 

```sql
billing error | count
```

The custom URL that launches this log query in the Sumo Logic Search page would be similar to the following. The exact URL would depend on your Sumo Logic account endpoint, as listed in [Sumo Logic Endpoints by Deployment and Firewall Security](/docs/api/getting-started#sumo-logic-endpoints-by-deployment-and-firewall-security). 

```
https://service.sumologic.com/ui/#/search/create?query={{app_name}}%20error%20%7C%20count&parameters=app_name:billing&startTime=-60m&endTime=-30m
```
