---
id: elastic-load-balancing-classic
title: AWS Elastic Load Balancing - Classic
sidebar_label: AWS Elastic Load Balancing - Classic
description: AWS Elastic Load Balancing - Classic
---

Amazon Web Services' (AWS) Elastic Load Balancer - Classic distributes incoming application traffic across multiple Amazon EC2 instances in the AWS Cloud. The Sumo Logic App for Elastic Load Balancer - Classic ingests logs generated by this activity, providing greater visibility into events that, in turn, help you understand the overall health of your EC2 deployment. For example, you can use the Sumo Logic App to analyze raw Elastic Load Balancing data to investigate the availability of applications running behind Elastic Load Balancers. Or, by correlating Elastic Load Balancer data with other data sets, you can get a broader understanding of the fault tolerance of your applications across multiple AWS Availability Zones.

Our new app install flow is now in Beta. It is only enabled for certain customers while we gather Beta customer feedback. If you can see the Add Integration button, follow the "Before you begin" section in the "Collect Logs" help page and then use the in-product instructions in Sumo Logic to set up the app.
For information on collecting unified logs and metrics for AWS Elastic Load Balancing - Classic, see AWS Elastic Load Balancing ULM - Classic.

If you are just beginning with AWS ELB, for background see the Sumo Logic DevOps blog, "AWS Elastic Load Balancing: Load Balancer Best Practices."

## Collect Logs

## Install the App

## Dashboards
