docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory.md, before:

---
id: crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-source
title: CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source
sidebar_label: CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory
description: Learn how to collect device information from the CrowdStrike FDR and send it to Sumo Logic.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/security-threat-detection/crowdstrike.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="85"/>

The CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source provides a secure endpoint to receive device data from the CrowdStrike [Host-And-Host-Group-Management-APIs](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/84/host-and-host-group-management-apis#managing-hosts). It securely stores the required authentication, scheduling, and state tracking information.

:::important
The CrowdStrike API documentation is not public and can only be accessed by partners or customers.
:::

## Prerequisites

To collect device data from the CrowdStrike platform, you must have an authorized CrowdStrike account. CrowdStrike APIs use an OAuth 2.0 authorization token to make authorized API calls. CrowdStrike API Client is required to get the OAuth 2.0 authorization token. To define a CrowdStrike API client, you must be designated as a `CrowdStrike Falcon Administrator` role.

## Data sources

CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory retrieves device information every 24 hours. The source will fetch device information that was seen in the last 30 days for the first time. Afterward, it will only fetch information about devices that have been modified.

Device data from this source could be used to augment AID data from the [CrowdStrike FDR source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/crowdstrike-fdr-source) via a [lookup table](/docs/search/lookup-tables/create-lookup-table/#introduction-to-lookup-tables)

## Metadata Field

If you've configured your integration with the Cloud SIEM forward option, metadata fields will be set. See **Metadata Fields** table below:

| Fields     |    Value                    |
| :-------    |  :------------------------ |
| `_siemVendor`	| CrowdStrike |
| `_siemProduct` | FDR Host Inventory |
| `_siemDataType`| Inventory  |

## Setup and Configuration

In this configuration, you will set up the CrowdStrike FDR account and configure it to be authorized and authenticated to use device information from CrowdStrike FDR API. To obtain the auth token, you will need the following parameters.

### API Client and API Secret

The **API security token** is used to authenticate with CrowdStrike FDR API. After successfully creating the API client, you will get the **Client Id**, **Client Secret**, and **Base URL**.
To get the **CrowdStrike API Client**, follow the steps below:
1. Access the [CrowdStrike FDR Platform](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/login/).
1. Log in using your email address and password. After you've completed the two-factor authentication, you'll be directed to the application dashboard.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-login-screen.png')} alt="crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-login-screen.png" width="600" />
1. From the CrowdStrike FDR Console, on the left-hand panel of the dashboard, locate the Menu option and click on it.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-open-menu.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-open-menu.png>" width="600" />
1. Select the **Support and resources** option from the menu.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-support-and-resources.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-support-and-resources.png>" width="600" />
1. Navigate to and click on **API clients and keys**. You can then view existing clients or add new API clients from there.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-api-key-client.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-api-key-client.png>" width="600" />
1. Click **Add new API client**. You will be prompted to give a descriptive name and select the appropriate API scopes.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-new-client.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-new-client.png>" width="600" />
1. Provide a proper name and description and select the **Read Hosts Scope**. Click on `ADD` to complete the process.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-add-client.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-add-client.png>" width="600" />
1. After you click on `ADD` a dialogue box will appear with the **Client ID**, **Client Secret** and **Base URL**. Copy and paste the Client Id, Client Secret and Base URL to a folder location because you will need them when creating the [CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source](#set-up-crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-source).<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-copy-creds.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-copy-creds.png>" width="600" />

### Region

1. Identify your **Region** based on your **Base URL**. The region can be selected from the list below.

   | Region | Base URL                    |
   | :------ | :-------------------------- |
   | US-1    | https://api.crowdstrike.com |
   | US-2    | https://api.us-2.crowdstrike.com  |
   | EU-1    | https://api.eu-1.crowdstrike.com  |
   | US-GOV-1    | https://api.laggar.gcw.crowdstrike.com |

## States

A CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source tracks errors, reports its health, and start-up progress. You’re informed, in real-time, if the Source is having trouble connecting, if there's an error requiring user action, or if it is healthy and collecting by utilizing Health Events.

A CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source goes through the following states when created:

1. **Pending**. Once the Source is submitted, it is validated, stored, and placed in a **Pending** state.
1. **Started**. A collection task is created on the Hosted Collector.
1. **Initialized**. The task configuration is complete in Sumo Logic.
1. **Authenticated**. The Source successfully authenticated with CrowdStrike FDR.
1. **Collecting**. The Source is actively collecting data from CrowdStrike FDR.

If the Source has any issues during any one of these states, it is placed in an **Error** state.

When you delete the Source, it is placed in a **Stopping** state. When it has successfully stopped, it is deleted from your Hosted Collector.

On the [Collection page](/docs/manage/health-events#collection-page), the Health and Status for Sources is displayed. Use [Health Events](/docs/manage/health-events.md) to investigate issues with collection. You can click the text in the Health column, such as **Error**, to open the issue in Health Events to investigate.

## Set up CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source

When you create a CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source, you add it to a Hosted Collector. Before creating the Source, identify the Hosted Collector you want to use or create a new Hosted Collector. For instructions, see [Configure a Hosted Collector](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector).

To configure the CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory API:
1. In Sumo Logic, select **Manage Data** > **Collection** > **Collection**. 
2. On the Collectors page, click **Add Source** next to a Hosted Collector.
3. Select **CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory** icon.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-icon.png')} alt="crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-icon.png" width="120" />
4. Enter a **Name** to display for the Source in the Sumo Logic web application. The description is optional. <br/>   <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-config-main.png')} alt="crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-config-main.png" width="400" />
5. (Optional) For **Source Category**, enter any string to tag the output collected from the Source. Category metadata is stored in a searchable field called `_sourceCategory`.
6. **Forward to SIEM**. Check the checkbox to forward your data to Cloud SIEM Enterprise as inventory. When configured with the **Forward to SIEM** option the following metadata fields are set:
  * `_siemVendor`: CrowdStrike
  * `_siemProduct`: FDR Host Inventory
  * `_siemDataType`: Inventory  
7. (Optional) **Fields**. Click the **+Add Field** link to define the fields you want to associate. Each field needs a name (key) and value.
   * ![green check circle.png](/img/reuse/green-check-circle.png) A green circle with a check mark is shown when the field exists in the Fields table schema.
   * ![orange exclamation point.png](/img/reuse/orange-exclamation-point.png) An orange triangle with an exclamation point is shown when the field doesn't exist in the Fields table schema. In this case, an option to automatically add the nonexistent fields to the Fields table schema is provided. If a field is sent to Sumo Logic that does not exist in the Fields schema it is ignored, known as dropped.
8. In **Region**, choose the region as per your Base URL. See [Region](#region) section to know your region.
9. In **Client ID**, enter the Client ID you generated and secured from the [API Client](#api-client-and-api-secret) section.
10. In **Client Secret**, enter the Client Secret you generated and secured from the [API Secret](#api-client-and-api-secret) section.
11. When you are finished configuring the Source, click **Save**.

## Error types

When Sumo Logic detects an issue, it is tracked by Health Events. The following table shows three possible error types. It tells the reason for the error, if the source attempts to retry, and the name of the event log in the Health Event Index.

| Type | Reason | Retries | Retry Behavior | Health Event Name |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| ThirdPartyConfig  | Normally due to an invalid configuration. You'll need to review your Source configuration and make an update. | No retries are attempted until the Source is updated. | Not applicable                                                    | ThirdPartyConfigError  |
| ThirdPartyGeneric | Normally due to an error communicating with the third-party service APIs.                                     | Yes                                                   | The Source will retry indefinitely.                               | ThirdPartyGenericError |
| FirstPartyGeneric | Normally due to an error communicating with the internal Sumo Logic APIs.                                     | Yes                                                   | The Source will retry indefinitely.                   | FirstPartyGenericError |

### Restarting your Source

{@import ../../../reuse/restart-c2c-source.md}

### JSON configuration

Sources can be configured using UTF-8 encoded JSON files with the Collector Management API. See [how to use JSON to configure Sources](/docs/send-data/use-json-configure-sources) for details. 

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Access |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| `config` | JSON Object  | Yes | Contains the [configuration-parameters](#config-parameters) of the Source. | na |
| `schemaRef` | JSON Object  | Yes | Use `{"type":"CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory"}` for CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source. | not modifiable |
| `sourceType` | String | Yes | Use `Universal` for CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source. | not modifiable |

### Config Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Access |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---|
| `name` | String | Yes | Type the desired name of the Source and it must be unique per Collector. This value is assigned to the `metadata field _source`.  | modifiable |
| `description` | String  | No | Type the description of the Source. | modifiable |
| `category` | String | No | Type the category of the source. This value is assigned to the metadata field `_sourceCategory`. | modifiable |
| `fields` | JSON Object | No | JSON map of key-value fields (metadata) to apply to the Collector or Source. Use the boolean field `_siemForward` to enable forwarding to SIEM. | modifiable |
| `region` | String | Yes | The Region of your CrowdStrike account. | modifiable |
| `clientID` | String | Yes | The CrowdStrike Client ID you want to use to authenticate collection requests. | modifiable |
| `clientSecret` | String | Yes | The CrowdStrike Client Secret you want to use to authenticate collection requests. | modifiable |

### JSON example

```json
{
   "api.version":"v1",
   "source":{
      "config":{
      "name": "crowdstrike-fdr",
      "description": "crowdstrike-fdr-inventory",
      "region": "US-1",
      "clientID": "client id",
      "clientSecret": "client secret",
         "fields":{
            "_siemForward":false
         }
      },
      "schemaRef":{
         "type":"CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source"
      },
      "sourceType":"Universal"
   }
}
```

Commit message:

CON-2038: added poll interval option in UI in doc (#2404)
* CON-2038: added poll interval option in UI in doc

* Update crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory.md, after:

---
id: crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-source
title: CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source
sidebar_label: CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory
description: Learn how to collect device information from the CrowdStrike FDR and send it to Sumo Logic.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/security-threat-detection/crowdstrike.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="85"/>

The CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source provides a secure endpoint to receive device data from the CrowdStrike [Host-And-Host-Group-Management-APIs](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/documentation/84/host-and-host-group-management-apis#managing-hosts). It securely stores the required authentication, scheduling, and state tracking information.

:::important
The CrowdStrike API documentation is not public and can only be accessed by partners or customers.
:::

## Prerequisites

To collect device data from the CrowdStrike platform, you must have an authorized CrowdStrike account. CrowdStrike APIs use an OAuth 2.0 authorization token to make authorized API calls. CrowdStrike API Client is required to get the OAuth 2.0 authorization token. To define a CrowdStrike API client, you must be designated as a `CrowdStrike Falcon Administrator` role.

## Data sources

CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory retrieves device information every 24 hours. The source will fetch device information that was seen in the last 30 days for the first time. Afterward, it will only fetch information about devices that have been modified.

Device data from this source could be used to augment AID data from the [CrowdStrike FDR source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/crowdstrike-fdr-source) via a [lookup table](/docs/search/lookup-tables/create-lookup-table/#introduction-to-lookup-tables)

## Metadata Field

If you've configured your integration with the Cloud SIEM forward option, metadata fields will be set. See **Metadata Fields** table below:

| Fields     |    Value                    |
| :-------    |  :------------------------ |
| `_siemVendor`	| CrowdStrike |
| `_siemProduct` | FDR Host Inventory |
| `_siemDataType`| Inventory  |

## Setup and Configuration

In this configuration, you will set up the CrowdStrike FDR account and configure it to be authorized and authenticated to use device information from CrowdStrike FDR API. To obtain the auth token, you will need the following parameters.

### API Client and API Secret

The **API security token** is used to authenticate with CrowdStrike FDR API. After successfully creating the API client, you will get the **Client Id**, **Client Secret**, and **Base URL**.
To get the **CrowdStrike API Client**, follow the steps below:
1. Access the [CrowdStrike FDR Platform](https://falcon.crowdstrike.com/login/).
1. Log in using your email address and password. After you've completed the two-factor authentication, you'll be directed to the application dashboard.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-login-screen.png')} alt="crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-login-screen.png" width="600" />
1. From the CrowdStrike FDR Console, on the left-hand panel of the dashboard, locate the Menu option and click on it.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-open-menu.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-open-menu.png>" width="600" />
1. Select the **Support and resources** option from the menu.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-support-and-resources.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-support-and-resources.png>" width="600" />
1. Navigate to and click on **API clients and keys**. You can then view existing clients or add new API clients from there.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-api-key-client.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-api-key-client.png>" width="600" />
1. Click **Add new API client**. You will be prompted to give a descriptive name and select the appropriate API scopes.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-new-client.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-new-client.png>" width="600" />
1. Provide a proper name and description and select the **Read Hosts Scope**. Click on `ADD` to complete the process.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-add-client.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-add-client.png>" width="600" />
1. After you click on `ADD` a dialogue box will appear with the **Client ID**, **Client Secret** and **Base URL**. Copy and paste the Client Id, Client Secret and Base URL to a folder location because you will need them when creating the [CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source](#set-up-crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-source).<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-copy-creds.png')} alt="<crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-copy-creds.png>" width="600" />

### Region

1. Identify your **Region** based on your **Base URL**. The region can be selected from the list below.

   | Region | Base URL                    |
   | :------ | :-------------------------- |
   | US-1    | https://api.crowdstrike.com |
   | US-2    | https://api.us-2.crowdstrike.com  |
   | EU-1    | https://api.eu-1.crowdstrike.com  |
   | US-GOV-1    | https://api.laggar.gcw.crowdstrike.com |

## States

A CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source tracks errors, reports its health, and start-up progress. You’re informed, in real-time, if the Source is having trouble connecting, if there's an error requiring user action, or if it is healthy and collecting by utilizing Health Events.

A CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source goes through the following states when created:

1. **Pending**. Once the Source is submitted, it is validated, stored, and placed in a **Pending** state.
1. **Started**. A collection task is created on the Hosted Collector.
1. **Initialized**. The task configuration is complete in Sumo Logic.
1. **Authenticated**. The Source successfully authenticated with CrowdStrike FDR.
1. **Collecting**. The Source is actively collecting data from CrowdStrike FDR.

If the Source has any issues during any one of these states, it is placed in an **Error** state.

When you delete the Source, it is placed in a **Stopping** state. When it has successfully stopped, it is deleted from your Hosted Collector.

On the [Collection page](/docs/manage/health-events#collection-page), the Health and Status for Sources is displayed. Use [Health Events](/docs/manage/health-events.md) to investigate issues with collection. You can click the text in the Health column, such as **Error**, to open the issue in Health Events to investigate.

## Set up CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source

When you create a CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source, you add it to a Hosted Collector. Before creating the Source, identify the Hosted Collector you want to use or create a new Hosted Collector. For instructions, see [Configure a Hosted Collector](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/configure-hosted-collector).

To configure the CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory API:
1. In Sumo Logic, select **Manage Data** > **Collection** > **Collection**. 
2. On the Collectors page, click **Add Source** next to a Hosted Collector.
3. Select **CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory** icon.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('/img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-icon.png')} alt="crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-icon.png" width="120" />
4. Enter a **Name** to display for the Source in the Sumo Logic web application. The description is optional. <br/>   <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-config-main.png')} alt="crowdstrike-fdr-host-inventory-config-main.png" width="400" />
5. (Optional) For **Source Category**, enter any string to tag the output collected from the Source. Category metadata is stored in a searchable field called `_sourceCategory`.
6. **Forward to SIEM**. Check the checkbox to forward your data to Cloud SIEM Enterprise as inventory. When configured with the **Forward to SIEM** option the following metadata fields are set:
  * `_siemVendor`: CrowdStrike
  * `_siemProduct`: FDR Host Inventory
  * `_siemDataType`: Inventory  
7. (Optional) **Fields**. Click the **+Add Field** link to define the fields you want to associate. Each field needs a name (key) and value.
   * ![green check circle.png](/img/reuse/green-check-circle.png) A green circle with a check mark is shown when the field exists in the Fields table schema.
   * ![orange exclamation point.png](/img/reuse/orange-exclamation-point.png) An orange triangle with an exclamation point is shown when the field doesn't exist in the Fields table schema. In this case, an option to automatically add the nonexistent fields to the Fields table schema is provided. If a field is sent to Sumo Logic that does not exist in the Fields schema it is ignored, known as dropped.
8. In **Region**, choose the region as per your Base URL. See [Region](#region) section to know your region.
9. In **Client ID**, enter the Client ID you generated and secured from the [API Client](#api-client-and-api-secret) section.
10. In **Client Secret**, enter the Client Secret you generated and secured from the [API Secret](#api-client-and-api-secret) section.
11. By default, **Polling Interval** is set to 24 hours.
12. When you are finished configuring the Source, click **Save**.

## Error types

When Sumo Logic detects an issue, it is tracked by Health Events. The following table shows three possible error types. It tells the reason for the error, if the source attempts to retry, and the name of the event log in the Health Event Index.

| Type | Reason | Retries | Retry Behavior | Health Event Name |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| ThirdPartyConfig  | Normally due to an invalid configuration. You'll need to review your Source configuration and make an update. | No retries are attempted until the Source is updated. | Not applicable                                                    | ThirdPartyConfigError  |
| ThirdPartyGeneric | Normally due to an error communicating with the third-party service APIs.                                     | Yes                                                   | The Source will retry indefinitely.                               | ThirdPartyGenericError |
| FirstPartyGeneric | Normally due to an error communicating with the internal Sumo Logic APIs.                                     | Yes                                                   | The Source will retry indefinitely.                   | FirstPartyGenericError |

### Restarting your Source

{@import ../../../reuse/restart-c2c-source.md}

### JSON configuration

Sources can be configured using UTF-8 encoded JSON files with the Collector Management API. See [how to use JSON to configure Sources](/docs/send-data/use-json-configure-sources) for details. 

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Access |
|:--|:--|:--|:--|:--|
| `config` | JSON Object  | Yes | Contains the [configuration-parameters](#config-parameters) of the Source. | na |
| `schemaRef` | JSON Object  | Yes | Use `{"type":"CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory"}` for CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source. | not modifiable |
| `sourceType` | String | Yes | Use `Universal` for CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source. | not modifiable |

### Config Parameters

| Parameter | Type | Required | Default | Description | Access |
|:---|:---|:---|:---|:---| :--- |
| `name` | String | Yes |  | Type the desired name of the Source and it must be unique per Collector. This value is assigned to the `metadata field _source`.  | modifiable |
| `description` | String  | No | null | Type the description of the Source. | modifiable |
| `category` | String | No | null | Type the category of the source. This value is assigned to the metadata field `_sourceCategory`. | modifiable |
| `fields` | JSON Object | No |  | JSON map of key-value fields (metadata) to apply to the Collector or Source. Use the boolean field `_siemForward` to enable forwarding to SIEM. | modifiable |
| `region` | String | Yes |  | The Region of your CrowdStrike account. | modifiable |
| `clientID` | String | Yes |  | The CrowdStrike Client ID you want to use to authenticate collection requests. | modifiable |
| `clientSecret` | String | Yes |  | The CrowdStrike Client Secret you want to use to authenticate collection requests. | modifiable |
| `pollingInterval` | Integer | No | 24 | This sets how often the Source checks for data. | modifiable |

### JSON example

```json
{
   "api.version":"v1",
   "source":{
      "config":{
      "name": "crowdstrike-fdr",
      "description": "crowdstrike-fdr-inventory",
      "region": "US-1",
      "clientID": "client id",
      "clientSecret": "client secret",
         "fields":{
            "_siemForward":false
         }
      },
      "schemaRef":{
         "type":"CrowdStrike FDR Host Inventory Source"
      },
      "sourceType":"Universal"
   }
}
```
