docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/gmail-tracelogs-source.md, before:

---
id: gmail-tracelogs-source
title: Gmail Trace Logs Source
sidebar_label: Gmail Trace Logs
description: The Sumo Logic Gmail Trace Logs source pulls the Gmail log from the BigQuery using BigQuery Library APIs and ingests them into the Sumo Logic to store, analyze, and alert.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/gmail-trace-logs-icon.svg')} alt="Gmail" width="50"/>

The Gmail Trace Logs integration pulls the Gmail log from the BigQuery using BigQuery Library APIs and ingests them into the Sumo Logic to store, analyze, and alert.


## Data sources

The Gmail Trace Logs integration will query a single data source (BigQuery). The Gmail Trace Logs Source ingests the following:

* [Set up Gmail logs in BigQuery](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7233312?hl=en&fl=1)
* [Schema for Gmail logs in BigQuery](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7230050?hl=en)


## Authorization

You need to generate the **Service Account Key** JSON file to complete the authorization process, follow the instructions below:

* Open the **Google Cloud Console**.
* Go to **IAM** & **ADMIN** tab.
* Select the **Service Account** tab.
* Select the **Project** and click the email address for the service account that you created.
* Click **Keys**.
* Click **Add key**, and then click **Create new key**.
* Click **Create**. A JSON key file is downloaded to your computer.
* Click **Close**.


## Metadata Fields

Metadata fields will be set, if the integration is configured with the SIEM forward option. See **Metadata Fields** table below:

| Fields     |    Value                    |
| :-------    |  :------------------------: |
|_siemparser    |/Parsers/System/Google/GCP BigQuery Gmail


## Setup and Configuration

The integration requires the following information to connect to the Gmail Trace Logs:
* `name`
* `projectId`
* `datasetId`
* `privateKey`
* `clientEmail`
* `tokenURI`
* `dataLocation`

:::info
* Find `projectId`, `privateKey`, `clientEmail` and `tokenURI` from the Google Cloud Console
* BigQuery DataSetId  = `datasetId`
* BigQuery DataSet Location  = `dataLocation`
* StartTime is set to "24 Hours ago" (by default), but can be modified.
:::

Commit message:

Update docs based on experience with a customer (#2351)
* Update docs based on experience with a customer

* Update docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/gmail-tracelogs-source.md

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/google-bigquery-source.md

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add back example 3

* Update docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/google-bigquery-source.md

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/gmail-tracelogs-source.md

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/gmail-tracelogs-source.md, after:

---
id: gmail-tracelogs-source
title: Gmail Trace Logs Source
sidebar_label: Gmail Trace Logs
description: The Sumo Logic Gmail Trace Logs source pulls the Gmail log from the BigQuery using BigQuery Library APIs and ingests them into the Sumo Logic to store, analyze, and alert.
---


import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/gmail-trace-logs-icon.svg')} alt="Gmail" width="50"/>

:::note
This source was originally developed for [Gmail logs in BigQuery](https://support.google.com/a/topic/7233311?fl=1&sjid=293657922002214011-NA), which has been replaced by [Google Workspace logs and reports in BigQuery](https://support.google.com/a/topic/9079469?fl=1&sjid=293657922002214011-NA).

You'll need to use our [Google BigQuery source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/google-bigquery-source) instead (see [Example 3: Query Gmail Logs](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/google-bigquery-source/#example-3-query-gmail-logs)). 
:::

The Gmail Trace Logs integration pulls the Gmail log from the BigQuery using BigQuery Library APIs and ingests them into the Sumo Logic to store, analyze, and alert.


## Data sources

The Gmail Trace Logs integration will query a single data source (BigQuery). The Gmail Trace Logs Source ingests the following:

* [Set up Gmail logs in BigQuery](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7233312?hl=en&fl=1)
* [Schema for Gmail logs in BigQuery](https://support.google.com/a/answer/7230050?hl=en)


## Authorization

You need to generate the **Service Account Key** JSON file to complete the authorization process, follow the instructions below:

* Open the **Google Cloud Console**.
* Go to **IAM** & **ADMIN** tab.
* Select the **Service Account** tab.
* Select the **Project** and click the email address for the service account that you created.
* Click **Keys**.
* Click **Add key**, and then click **Create new key**.
* Click **Create**. A JSON key file is downloaded to your computer.
* Click **Close**.


## Metadata Fields

Metadata fields will be set, if the integration is configured with the SIEM forward option. See **Metadata Fields** table below:

| Fields     |    Value                    |
| :-------    |  :------------------------: |
|_siemparser    |/Parsers/System/Google/GCP BigQuery Gmail


## Setup and Configuration

The integration requires the following information to connect to the Gmail Trace Logs:
* `name`
* `projectId`
* `datasetId`
* `privateKey`
* `clientEmail`
* `tokenURI`
* `dataLocation`

:::info
* Find `projectId`, `privateKey`, `clientEmail` and `tokenURI` from the Google Cloud Console
* BigQuery DataSetId  = `datasetId`
* BigQuery DataSet Location  = `dataLocation`
* StartTime is set to "24 Hours ago" (by default), but can be modified.
:::
