docs/manage/manage-subscription/close-cancel-sumo-account.md, before:

---
id: close-cancel-sumo-account
title: Close or Cancel a Sumo Logic Account
description: The owner of a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account may delete their Organization from Sumo Logic, which will close the account permanently.
---


This topic covers how to delete your organization from a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account and permanently close the account. It also provides instructions for cancelling a Sumo Logic licensed account. 

## Close a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account

The owner of a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account can delete their organization from Sumo Logic, which will close the account permanently. When you delete your organization, you delete all users and data from Sumo Logic, close the account, and log yourself out as a user.

:::important
This task deletes your Sumo Logic Organization, all users and data. **This action cannot be undone.** 
:::

To delete a Sumo Logic organization and close the account:

1. In the Sumo Logic left navigation bar, go to **Administration** > **Account**.
1. At the bottom of the page, under the section **Delete this Organization from Sumo Logic?**, click **Delete Org**.
1. In the dialog **Delete This Organization from Sumo Logic?**, enter **DELETE** to confirm.
1. Click **Delete Org**.

The Sumo Logic Organization, all users and data are deleted.

:::note
If you have a self service trial account, at the end of the trial, typically 30 days, if you do not upgrade to a paid subscription, your account reverts to a free plan.
:::

## Cancel a Sumo Logic licensed account

If you'd like to cancel your organization's Sumo Logic account, please open a ticket with [Sumo Logic Support](https://support.sumologic.com/hc/en-us/requests/new), and we will process your request in a timely manner.

Commit message:

Manage account first updates  (#2613)
* Updates per CP

new ui, new updates

* added in reports line

fixed missing Downloads text

* Updated spacing

updated spacing

* fixing spacing

AAGHHHHAHH

* Updates change to navigation

the account owner changes are no longer on the bottom

* Update cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

forgot to add image

* Update cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

removed below direction

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update docs/manage/manage-subscription/cloud-flex-credits-accounts.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

docs/manage/manage-subscription/close-cancel-sumo-account.md, after:

---
id: close-cancel-sumo-account
title: Close or Cancel a Sumo Logic Account
description: The owner of a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account may delete their Organization from Sumo Logic, which will close the account permanently.
---


This topic covers how to delete your organization from a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account and permanently close the account. It also provides instructions for cancelling a Sumo Logic licensed account. 

## Close a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account

The owner of a Sumo Logic Free or Trial account can delete their organization from Sumo Logic, which will close the account permanently. When you delete your organization, you delete all users and data from Sumo Logic, close the account, and log yourself out as a user.

:::important
This task deletes your Sumo Logic Organization, all users and data. **This action cannot be undone.** 
:::

To delete a Sumo Logic organization and close the account:

1. In the Sumo Logic left navigation bar, go to **Administration** > **Account**.
1. At the top of the page, select the details icon.
1. Select **Delete this Organization from Sumo Logic?**, click **Delete Org**.
1. In the dialog **Delete This Organization from Sumo Logic?**, enter **DELETE** to confirm.
1. Click **Delete Org**.

The Sumo Logic Organization, all users and data are deleted. This cannot be undone.

:::note
If you have a self service trial account, at the end of the trial, typically 30 days, if you do not upgrade to a paid subscription, your account converts to a free plan. 
:::

## Cancel a Sumo Logic licensed account

To cancel your organization's paid Sumo Logic account, open a ticket with [Sumo Logic Support](https://support.sumologic.com/hc/en-us/requests/new), and we will process your request in a timely manner.
