---
title: 2018 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

This is an archive of 2018 Developer Release Notes. To view the Developer Release Notes archive, [click here](/release-notes-developer/archive).


---
## November 20, 2018 - APIs

New - As part of our new API-centric development approach, we have several [Sumo Logic APIs](/docs/api/beta) now available. Contact your sales rep to sign up to be one of our Beta Customers for the following APIs:

* Connections
* Content
* Field Extraction Rules
* Ingest Budgets
* Partitions
* Roles
* Scheduled Views
* Users

And the following APIs are coming soon:

* Dashboards
* Metrics Monitors


---
## September 11, 2018 - APIs
New - [Receipt time](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/use-receipt-time) is now available for scheduled searches, share links for searches, pinned searches, and Search Job API queries. To support receipt time, the Search Job API has a new parameter,[byReceiptTime](/docs/api/search-job#Query-parameters).


---
## July 6, 2018 - APIs
Techniques that manage load, like rate limiting and throttling, help keep the Sumo platform reliable and stable. Towards that end, a new Search Job API throttling limit was introduced today. Until now, search jobs were subject only to the global rate limit: each user is limited to four API requests/second. Now, to improve reliability Sumo is limiting the number of active search jobs for a given account to 200. To manage the number of active search jobs, you can manually clear completed searches.

For more information, see [Search Job API throttling](/docs/api/search-job#Throttling).
