docs/dashboards/get-started/create-dashboard.md, before:

---
id: create-dashboard
---

# Create a Dashboard

Almost any query you run that produces aggregate results can be saved as a Data Panel in a Live or an Interactive Dashboard. [Aggregating (grouping) functions](/docs/search/search-query-language/group-aggregate-operators) evaluate
messages and place them into groups.

:::important
Queries can be up to 10,240 characters in length.
:::

1. After running a query, choose the layout for the Panel from the chart icons (table, bar chart, column chart, line graph, area chart, pie chart, or map) in the **Aggregates** tab. (You'll be able to change the layout of the Panel at any time.)​

    ![Chart Type Toolbar](/img/dashboards/toolbar.png)

1. In the **Aggregates** tab, click the **Add to Dashboard** button.​​
1. In the **Create Panel** dialog box, do the following: 

    * For Title, type the name of the Panel.
    * For **Dashboard**, type the name of the new Dashboard to which you'd like to add the Panel. The Dashboard type is set when you create the Dashboard, and it cannot be changed later.     

    ![CreatePanel.png](/img/dashboards/CreatePanel.png)
    
1. Click **Add**.

The new Dashboard opens and displays the new Panel.

## Add a Panel to an Existing Dashboard

1. After running a query, choose the layout for the Panel from the chart icons (table, bar chart, column chart, line graph, area chart, pie chart, or map) in the **Aggregates** tab. (You'll be able to change the layout of the Panel at any time.)​

    ![Chart Type Toolbar](/img/dashboards/toolbar.png)

1. In the **Aggregates** tab, click the **Add to Dashboard** button.​
1. In the **Create Panel** dialog box, do the following: 

    * For **Title**, type the name of the Panel. 
    * For **Dashboard**, select the Dashboard to which you'd like to add the Panel. 

    ![CreatePanel.png](/img/dashboards/CreatePanel.png)

1. Click **Add**.

The Dashboard displays the new Panel.

## Why does the data look different in the new Panel?

The results of a query in the Search tab of the web application are displayed based on the time range you chose when you initially ran the search. When you add the search as a Panel, the query is essentially re-run using a fresh time range. If you've just added a Panel with a long time range, like 24 hours, it can take up to 24 hours to see the full results in a Panel.

Commit message:

end of life caution added for Classic dashboard docs

docs/dashboards/get-started/create-dashboard.md, after:

---
id: create-dashboard
title: Create a Dashboard
---

:::caution
We strongly recommend using our [Dashboards (New)](/docs/dashboards-new), which allows you to analyze metrics and log data on the same dashboard in a streamlined user experience. Sumo Logic will cease updates and support for Classic Dashboards.
:::

Almost any query you run that produces aggregate results can be saved as a Data Panel in a Live or an Interactive Dashboard. [Aggregating (grouping) functions](/docs/search/search-query-language/group-aggregate-operators) evaluate
messages and place them into groups.

:::important
Queries can be up to 10,240 characters in length.
:::

1. After running a query, choose the layout for the Panel from the chart icons (table, bar chart, column chart, line graph, area chart, pie chart, or map) in the **Aggregates** tab. (You'll be able to change the layout of the Panel at any time.)​

    ![Chart Type Toolbar](/img/dashboards/toolbar.png)

1. In the **Aggregates** tab, click the **Add to Dashboard** button.​​
1. In the **Create Panel** dialog box, do the following: 

    * For Title, type the name of the Panel.
    * For **Dashboard**, type the name of the new Dashboard to which you'd like to add the Panel. The Dashboard type is set when you create the Dashboard, and it cannot be changed later.     

    ![CreatePanel.png](/img/dashboards/CreatePanel.png)
    
1. Click **Add**.

The new Dashboard opens and displays the new Panel.

## Add a Panel to an Existing Dashboard

1. After running a query, choose the layout for the Panel from the chart icons (table, bar chart, column chart, line graph, area chart, pie chart, or map) in the **Aggregates** tab. (You'll be able to change the layout of the Panel at any time.)​

    ![Chart Type Toolbar](/img/dashboards/toolbar.png)

1. In the **Aggregates** tab, click the **Add to Dashboard** button.​
1. In the **Create Panel** dialog box, do the following: 

    * For **Title**, type the name of the Panel. 
    * For **Dashboard**, select the Dashboard to which you'd like to add the Panel. 

    ![CreatePanel.png](/img/dashboards/CreatePanel.png)

1. Click **Add**.

The Dashboard displays the new Panel.

## Why does the data look different in the new Panel?

The results of a query in the Search tab of the web application are displayed based on the time range you chose when you initially ran the search. When you add the search as a Panel, the query is essentially re-run using a fresh time range. If you've just added a Panel with a long time range, like 24 hours, it can take up to 24 hours to see the full results in a Panel.
