docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/index.md, before:

---
slug: /search/get-started-with-search/search-page
title: How to Use the Search Page
description: Understand the basic components of the Search window and how they can help you investigate your issues.
---


On the Search page, you can enter [simple or complex queries](../search-basics/about-search-basics.md) to search your entire Sumo Logic data repository. You can save and select searches from your [Library](/docs/get-started/library). After running a search, your results are displayed in either the **Messages** tab (for raw message data) or the **Aggregates** tab (for grouped results). See [how to navigate through search results](navigate-through-search-results.md).

You can [run a saved search](../search-basics/save-search.md), [pause, or stop searches](../search-basics/pause-cancel-search.md), or [schedule a search to run periodically](../../../alerts/scheduled-searches/schedule-search.md) and notify you of the results.

![search page feb 2022.png](/img/search/get-started-search/search-page/search-page.png)

| Letter | Purpose |
|:--|:--|
| A | [Basic or Advanced mode](search-modes.md) search text box. Advanced mode searches are limited to a maximum of 15,000 characters in length.<br/><br/>Click the clock icon to see recent searches. Previously run searches are saved automatically for your reference. Instead of recreating your search, you can select it from the dropdown.<br/><br/>As you make changes, a message displays if you have not pressed enter to execute the query: ![query detected](/img/search/get-started-search/search-page/query-changes-detected.png) |
| B | [Time range](../build-search/set-time-range.md) of the search. |
| C | Start the search. |
| D | Click the gear icon to open the Search Config menu that has the options to use the [receipt time](../build-search/use-receipt-time.md) and [Auto Parse Mode](../build-search/dynamic-parsing.md). |
| E | [Share a link](../search-basics/share-link-to-search.md) for the currently running search. |
| F | [Save or schedule](../search-basics/save-search.md) a search. |
| G | Click the three-dot icon to open a menu with the following options:<ul><li>Select between Basic or Advanced search mode.</li><li>Link to [search cheat sheets](/docs/search/search-cheat-sheets).</li><li>Edit the search, if it has already been saved.</li><li>[Save or schedule](../search-basics/save-search.md) a search.</li><li>[Share a link](../search-basics/share-link-to-search.md) for the currently running search.</li><li>Info provides detailed information about the search.</li><li>[Pin](/docs/get-started/library#search-the-library) the search to run in the background independent of the browser session.</li><li>[Favorite](add-saved-search-to-favorites.md) a saved search.</li><li>[Add a new monitor](/docs/alerts/monitors) based on the existing query in the search text box.</li><li>Use [Live Tail](/docs/search/live-tail) to see a real-time live feed of log events.</li></ul>The menu options are dynamically provided so depending on if you have run or saved the search or conducted aggregation some options will be grayed out and unclickable. |
| H | [Histogram](navigate-through-search-results.md) of the messages. |
| I | Search Details such as session, status, elapsed time, results, raw count, search expression, and [load](search-load-indicator.md). When searching an [Infrequent Partition](/docs/manage/partitions-data-tiers) the estimated and actual amount of data scanned is displayed. |
| J | Search results as messages. |
| K | [Aggregate](/docs/search/search-query-language/group-aggregate-operators) search results. |
| L | Download and export search results (up to 100,000 records) as a CSV file. |
| M | [Chart](/docs/dashboards/panels) options for search results. |
| N | Click the gear icon to open a menu with the options to edit Display Message Preferences, Save as Default View, and Edit Settings JSON. |
| O | Add to Dashboard allows you to create a panel on a Dashboard from your search. If a Dashboard exists for the Search, you will have another option to Update Dashboard to update it based on changes made here. |
| P | Expands the results table and hides the histogram and search text area. |
| Q | Hides the histogram. |

## Query colors explained

In your search query, you'll see that we have separated out important terms in a search for you by color to help you identify them quickly.  

![Query Sample Colors](/img/search/get-started-search/search-page/query-with-colors.png)
| Color | Purpose |
|:--|:--|
| Blue | Boolean operators (and, or, not) |
| Red | Quoted string |
| Purple | Sumo first operators (parse, nodrop, etc.) and secondary operators (row, column) |
| Green | Specific numeric values |

## Guide contents

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

In this section, we'll introduce the following concepts:

<div className="box-wrapper" markdown="1">
<div className="box smallbox1 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/add-saved-search-to-favorites"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Add a Saved Search to Favorites</h4></a>
  <p>You can mark a saved search as a favorite so it appears in your Library.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox2 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/change-time-range-in-histogram"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Change the Time Range in the Histogram</h4></a>
  <p>Learn how to filter results based on a histogram time range.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox3 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/field-browser/show-hide-fields-in-field-browser"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Field Browser</h4></a>
  <p>Explore specific fields of interest in a search by displaying or hiding selected fields without having to parse them.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox4 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/log-level"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>View log-level distribution</h4></a>
  <p>View the filter log-level distribution in your Histogram results.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox5 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/modify-search-from-messages-tab"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Modify a Search from the results table</h4></a>
  <p>Modify past searches by selecting text displayed in the Messages tab.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox6 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/navigate-through-search-results"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Navigate Messages in Search Results</h4></a>
  <p>When you run a search query, messages display in the Message, Aggregates, and Summarize tabs.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox7 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/search-highlighting"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Search Highlighting</h4></a>
  <p>When your search results are returned, your search terms are highlighted in the Messages tab.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox8 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/search-load-indicator"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Search Load Indicator</h4></a>
  <p>Learn how to reduce system load by making your queries more specific.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox9 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/search-modes"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Search Modes</h4></a>
  <p>Learn about the new search modes of our Log Search page.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox10 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/set-messages-tab-preferences"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Set Messages Tab Preferences</h4></a>
  <p>The Preferences menu allows you to customize how messages are displayed.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox11 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/wildcards-in-full-text-searches"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Wildcards in Full Text Searches</h4></a>
  <p>You can use wildcards in full text searches.</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<br/>

Commit message:

Increase size search query editor

docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/index.md, after:

---
slug: /search/get-started-with-search/search-page
title: How to Use the Search Page
description: Understand the basic components of the Search window and how they can help you investigate your issues.
---


On the Search page, you can enter [simple or complex queries](../search-basics/about-search-basics.md) to search your entire Sumo Logic data repository. You can adjust the size of the search query editor for better visibility into long queries and reduce the size of the editor while examining larger results, making it easier to navigate through your data. You can save and select searches from your [Library](/docs/get-started/library). After running a search, your results are displayed in either the **Messages** tab (for raw message data) or the **Aggregates** tab (for grouped results). See [how to navigate through search results](navigate-through-search-results.md).

You can [run a saved search](../search-basics/save-search.md), [pause, or stop searches](../search-basics/pause-cancel-search.md), or [schedule a search to run periodically](../../../alerts/scheduled-searches/schedule-search.md) and notify you of the results.

![search page feb 2022.png](/img/search/get-started-search/search-page/search-page.png)

| Letter | Purpose |
|:--|:--|
| A | [Basic or Advanced mode](search-modes.md) search text box. Advanced mode searches are limited to a maximum of 15,000 characters in length.<br/><br/>Click the clock icon to see recent searches. Previously run searches are saved automatically for your reference. Instead of recreating your search, you can select it from the dropdown.<br/><br/>As you make changes, a message displays if you have not pressed enter to execute the query: ![query detected](/img/search/get-started-search/search-page/query-changes-detected.png) |
| B | [Time range](../build-search/set-time-range.md) of the search. |
| C | Start the search. |
| D | Click the gear icon to open the Search Config menu that has the options to use the [receipt time](../build-search/use-receipt-time.md) and [Auto Parse Mode](../build-search/dynamic-parsing.md). |
| E | [Share a link](../search-basics/share-link-to-search.md) for the currently running search. |
| F | [Save or schedule](../search-basics/save-search.md) a search. |
| G | Click the three-dot icon to open a menu with the following options:<ul><li>Select between Basic or Advanced search mode.</li><li>Link to [search cheat sheets](/docs/search/search-cheat-sheets).</li><li>Edit the search, if it has already been saved.</li><li>[Save or schedule](../search-basics/save-search.md) a search.</li><li>[Share a link](../search-basics/share-link-to-search.md) for the currently running search.</li><li>Info provides detailed information about the search.</li><li>[Pin](/docs/get-started/library#search-the-library) the search to run in the background independent of the browser session.</li><li>[Favorite](add-saved-search-to-favorites.md) a saved search.</li><li>[Add a new monitor](/docs/alerts/monitors) based on the existing query in the search text box.</li><li>Use [Live Tail](/docs/search/live-tail) to see a real-time live feed of log events.</li></ul>The menu options are dynamically provided so depending on if you have run or saved the search or conducted aggregation some options will be grayed out and unclickable. |
| H | [Histogram](navigate-through-search-results.md) of the messages. |
| I | Search Details such as session, status, elapsed time, results, raw count, search expression, and [load](search-load-indicator.md). When searching an [Infrequent Partition](/docs/manage/partitions-data-tiers) the estimated and actual amount of data scanned is displayed. |
| J | Search results as messages. |
| K | [Aggregate](/docs/search/search-query-language/group-aggregate-operators) search results. |
| L | Download and export search results (up to 100,000 records) as a CSV file. |
| M | [Chart](/docs/dashboards/panels) options for search results. |
| N | Click the gear icon to open a menu with the options to edit Display Message Preferences, Save as Default View, and Edit Settings JSON. |
| O | Add to Dashboard allows you to create a panel on a Dashboard from your search. If a Dashboard exists for the Search, you will have another option to Update Dashboard to update it based on changes made here. |
| P | Expands the results table and hides the histogram and search text area. |
| Q | Hides the histogram. |

## Query colors explained

In your search query, you'll see that we have separated out important terms in a search for you by color to help you identify them quickly.  

![Query Sample Colors](/img/search/get-started-search/search-page/query-with-colors.png)
| Color | Purpose |
|:--|:--|
| Blue | Boolean operators (and, or, not) |
| Red | Quoted string |
| Purple | Sumo first operators (parse, nodrop, etc.) and secondary operators (row, column) |
| Green | Specific numeric values |

## Guide contents

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

In this section, we'll introduce the following concepts:

<div className="box-wrapper" markdown="1">
<div className="box smallbox1 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/add-saved-search-to-favorites"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Add a Saved Search to Favorites</h4></a>
  <p>You can mark a saved search as a favorite so it appears in your Library.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox2 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/change-time-range-in-histogram"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Change the Time Range in the Histogram</h4></a>
  <p>Learn how to filter results based on a histogram time range.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox3 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/field-browser/show-hide-fields-in-field-browser"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Field Browser</h4></a>
  <p>Explore specific fields of interest in a search by displaying or hiding selected fields without having to parse them.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox4 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/log-level"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>View log-level distribution</h4></a>
  <p>View the filter log-level distribution in your Histogram results.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox5 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/modify-search-from-messages-tab"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Modify a Search from the results table</h4></a>
  <p>Modify past searches by selecting text displayed in the Messages tab.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox6 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/navigate-through-search-results"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Navigate Messages in Search Results</h4></a>
  <p>When you run a search query, messages display in the Message, Aggregates, and Summarize tabs.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox7 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/search-highlighting"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Search Highlighting</h4></a>
  <p>When your search results are returned, your search terms are highlighted in the Messages tab.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox8 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/search-load-indicator"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Search Load Indicator</h4></a>
  <p>Learn how to reduce system load by making your queries more specific.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox9 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/search-modes"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Search Modes</h4></a>
  <p>Learn about the new search modes of our Log Search page.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox10 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/set-messages-tab-preferences"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Set Messages Tab Preferences</h4></a>
  <p>The Preferences menu allows you to customize how messages are displayed.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox11 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-page/wildcards-in-full-text-searches"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/search.png')} alt="icon" width="40"/><h4>Wildcards in Full Text Searches</h4></a>
  <p>You can use wildcards in full text searches.</p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<br/>
