---
title: 2019 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
---

This is an archive of 2019 Developer Release Notes. To view the Developer Release Notes archive, [click here](/release-notes-developer/archive).

---
## December 11, 2019 - APIs
The App Installation API is now in open beta. You can use the API to view and install Sumo Logic applications. For more information, see [APIs in Beta](/docs/api/beta).


---
## August 27, 2019 - APIs
Update - Steps for generating clients now use [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech/) instead of Swagger Codegen. Using Swagger Codegen will generate a backward incompatible client. For more details, see [https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen/issues/9103](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen/issues/9103)


---
## August 7, 2019 - APIs
New - [Content](/docs/api/content-management), [Folder](/docs/api/folders), and [Permissions](/docs/api/content-permissions) Management APIs allow you to manage content in your organization’s [Library](/docs/get-started/Library) from HTTP endpoints.


---
## June 26, 2019 - APIs
Update - The [Collector Management API](/docs/api/collector-management) can return Collectors by name and manage offline Collectors with the `aliveBeforeDays` parameter.


---
## June 17, 2019 - APIs
New - The [Ingest Budget Management API](/docs/api/ingest-budget-v1) allows you to manage [ingest budgets](/docs/manage/ingestion-volume/Ingest-Budgets) from HTTP endpoints.

#### Deprecation Notice

Beta endpoints will be deprecated effective August 1, 2019. If you have any questions reach out to us at [ingest-budgets-beta-group@sumologic.com](mailto:ingest-budgets-beta-group@sumologic.com).


---
## May 15, 2019 - Collection

Update - Added hostname as a Collector environment variable in our [Docker image](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-collector-docker).


---
## March 22, 2019 - APIs
Update - The security services of our [API](/docs/api) framework has been upgraded. API requests with multiple forward slashes (`//`) will receive a "500 Internal Server Error" response.

---
## February 13, 2019 - APIs
New - [User and Role APIs](/docs/api) allow administrators to programmatically create and manage users and roles, making it easy to integrate Sumo into existing onboarding/offboarding business workflows.
