---
title: Sept 2022 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
---

Archive of September 2022 Cloud SIEM Release Notes.


---
## September 29, 2022 - Content Release

### Rules
* [Deleted] MATCH-S00070 Checkpoint Firewall

### Log Mappers

* [New] Cyber Ark EPM AggregateEvent
* [New] Cyber Ark EPM AuditAdmin
* [New] Cyber Ark EPM GetComputer
* [New] Cyber Ark EPM Policy
* [New] Cyber Ark EPM RawDetails
* [New] Cyber Ark EPM RawEvents

### Parsers
* [New] /Parsers/System/Cyber-Ark/CyberArk EPM JSON
* [Updated] /Parsers/System/Auth0/Auth0


---
## September 19, 2022 - Content Release

### Rules
* [Deleted] CHAIN-S00009 Proofpoint TAP Click Permitted Followed by Successful Request

### Log Mappers
* [New] Wiz Catch All
* [Updated] Orca Security Parser - Catch All

#### Schema
* [New] cloud_provider
* [New] cloud_region
* [New] cloud_service
* [New] cloud_zone
* [New] device_container_id
* [New] device_container_name
* [New] device_container_runtime
* [New] device_image
* [New] device_type
* [New] dstDevice_container_id
* [New] dstDevice_container_name
* [New] dstDevice_container_runtime
* [New] dstDevice_image
* [New] dstDevice_type
* [New] resourceType
* [New] srcDevice_container_id
* [New] srcDevice_container_name
* [New] srcDevice_container_runtime
* [New] srcDevice_image
* [New] srcDevice_type
* [Updated] dstDevice_uniqueId

---
## September 12, 2022 - Application Update

#### Insight Enrichment Server for Fed deployment

* [Update] We’ve released a new version of the [Insight Enrichment Server](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/cse/integrations/insight-enrichment-server) that runs on the Sumo Logic FedRAMP-compliant deployment. This makes Cloud SIEM Enterprise (CSE) on FedRAMP functionally equivalent to commercial deployments of CSE.

---
## Application Update 2022-09-09

### Minor Changes and Enhancements

* [New] An API endpoint has been added which enables user to delete multiple entries in a match list in one operation: `POST: /match-list-items/bulk-delete`
* [Updated] When inventory data for hosts includes both private and public IP addresses, that data will be attached to both Entities. Previously it was only attached to one of the IP address Entities.
* [Updated] Previously we announced that the severity attribute for Insights in the Audit Logs would be switching from numbers (1-4) to text (LOW, MEDIUM, HIGH, etc). Instead, we have retained the existing numerical attribute and added a new attribute `severityName` containing the human-readable text.

### Resolved Issues

* In some Audit Log messages related to Insight comments, the `insight_readable_id` was not set correctly.
* In some cases, manually adding or removing tags in an Insight was not being recorded in the Audit Logs properly.
* For some customers, the bar chart on the Records list page was not rendering properly.
* Time/date stamps were not being displayed consistently across the UI.
* Some pages were returning intermittent 404 or internal errors.  

---
## Content Release 2022-09-08

In 1 week (2022-09-15) we will be removing CHAIN-S00009 - 'Proofpoint TAP Click Permitted Followed by Successful Request' rule to consolidate Proofpoint TAP rules while providing equivalent detection value.

### Rules

* [Updated] MATCH-S00819 Chromium Process Started With Debugging Port

### Log Mappers

* [Updated] Aruba ClearPass Syslog

### Parsers

* [Updated] /Parsers/System/HP/Aruba ClearPass - Syslog
* [Updated] /Parsers/System/Microsoft/Microsoft Azure JSON
* [Updated] /Parsers/System/Microsoft/Microsoft IIS

---
## Application Update 2022-09-01

### Announcements

* Starting October 1, 2022, _suppressed _Signals will be retained in CSE for 30 days (previously, they were retained for 90 days). All Signals are automatically stored in the Sumo sec_signals index for 2 years, so users searching for suppressed Signals more than 30 days old should search in that index instead of in the CSE UI.
    * Note also that in the past, Signals attached to Insights were searchable from the CSE Signals list page indefinitely. Starting on October 1, they will only be searchable for 365 days. (They will still be visible from the Insight details page beyond that period.)
* As previously announced, the Sensor and IBM Resilient actions are no longer supported. They will be removed from CSE by the end of this month.

### Minor Changes and Enhancements

* [New] In the Audit Log, when an Insight is created, the sum of the included Signals' severity is now included with the insight in the `risk_score` field (i.e. if there were three Signals each with a severity of 4, the sum of 12 will be included).
* [Updated] The "Copy Expression" mouse action for record fields can now be activated using Shift+Click. The Click action now brings up a "Copy Value" action instead.
* [New] Users can now delete Match Lists from the list view (i.e. users no longer have to go into the details).
* [New] On the Criticality list page, the number of Entity Groups associated with each Criticality is now listed on the cards.

### Resolved Issues

* In some cases where the Signals were relatively old, the Signals that contributed to an Insight were no longer visible in the Insight in the UI.
* Time stamps were missing from Records in some views.

---
## Content Release 2022-09-01

In 2 weeks (2022-09-15) we will be removing CHAIN-S00009 - 'Proofpoint TAP Click Permitted Followed by Successful Request' rule to consolidate Proofpoint TAP rules while providing equivalent detection value.

### Rules

* [New] MATCH-S00818 Azure PRT Token Issued via Non Interactive Login
* [New] MATCH-S00821 Chromium Browser History Access by Non-Browser Process
* [New] MATCH-S00819 Chromium Process Started With Debugging Port
* [New] MATCH-S00820 Cloud Credential File Accessed
* [New] MATCH-S00817 Suspicious Azure Active Directory Device Code Authentication
* [Updated] MATCH-S00235 Azure - Create User

### Log Mappers

* [New] Mimecast AV Event
* [New] Mimecast Impersonation Event
* [New] Mimecast Spam Event
* [Updated] AzureActivityLog AuditLogs
