---
title: August 2022 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
authors:
  - name: Sumo Logic Docs Team
    url: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation
---

Archive of August 2022 Cloud SIEM Release Notes.


---
## Application Update 2022-08-25

### Cloud SIEM Enterprise App is now available

The CSE app gives you visibility into what’s going on in Cloud SIEM Enterprise. The app dashboards present high-level and detailed views into the Records that were created, the Signals that have fired, and the Insights generated by CSE. You can also get insight in CSE rules, including rule management activity, and which rules have fired.

This app is available to all licensed CSE customers in the Sumo Logic App Catalog. For more information, see [CSE App](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/cse).

---
## Content Release 2022-08-25

### Rules

* [Updated] MATCH-S00632 Okta Administrator Access Granted
* [Updated] MATCH-S00683 Overly Permissive Chmod Command

### Log Mappers

* [New] Check Point Avanan
* [New] Cisco ISE Authentication Failure
* [New] Cisco ISE Authentication Success
* [New] Cisco ISE Catch All
* [New] FireEye Web MPS Event
* [Updated] Microsoft Office 365 Threat Intelligence Events
* [Updated] Windows Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational 3
* [Updated] Windows Security 4688

### Parsers

* [New] /Parsers/System/Check Point/Check Point Avanan JSON
* [New] /Parsers/System/Cisco/Cisco ISE
* [New] /Parsers/System/FireEye/FireEye Web MPS JSON

---
## August 18, 2022 - Application Update

### Resolved Issues

* Several issues were resolved related to the bulk upload of Entity attributes, including errors with CSV file parsing, editing uploaded attributes in the UI, and a lack of audit logging.
* On the Entity details page, the criticality was not being displayed properly.
Labels were not being created properly based on Network Blocks for a small number of customers.
* **InsightCommentCreated** audit events did not include the `readableId` attribute.
* For some record types, the `Actions` field was not being displayed if selected as a favorite field.  

---

In the Cloud SIEM Enterprise release notes, you'll find information about new and enhanced features, updated content (like rules, log mappers and parsers), bug fixes, and other important announcements.

To view release notes from previous years, check the [archive](/release-notes-cse/archive).

<span className="getstarted"><a href="https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-cse/rss.xml">RSS Feed</a></span>
