---
title: 2022 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
---

This is an archive of 2022 Collector Release Notes. The current Collector Release Notes are [here](/release-notes-collector).

---
### December 14, 2022 (19.418-5)

* Security fix: Updated collector JRE to Amazon Corretto 8.352.08.1
* Bug fix: Supports resilient connectivity to Collector when a pod change occurs.
* Bug fix: Introduced error handling to certain types of forwarded events that caused the collector to crash.
* Bug fix: Resolved Collector installation issues on Mac machines.

---
### November 4, 2022 (19.415-6)

* Security fix: Avro-util updated to 0.2.118, fixes CVE-2022-42889

---
### October 26, 2022 (19.415-4)

* Security update: apache commons version updated to 1.10, fixes CVE-2022-42889
* Security update: ant version updated to 1.10.11 fixes CVE-2021-36373, CVE-2021-36374 

---
### October 12, 2022 (Introducing Sumo Logic Open Source Docs)

Welcome to the Sumo Logic Collector Release Notes on our new docs site! We're now open source and encourage you to contribute. We welcome all contributions, from minor typo fixes to brand new docs. Your expertise and sharing can help fellow users learn and expand their knowledge of Sumo Logic.

* [Sumo Logic Open Source Docs Site](https://help.sumologic.com)
* [Collector Release Notes archive](/release-notes-collector/archive)

<!--truncate-->

Here you'll find new Collector features and relevant bug fixes for each release.

To use Collector features mentioned in the Release Notes, you'll need to upgrade your [Installed Collector](/docs/send-data/installed-collectors) software in one of the following ways:
* [Using Static URLs](/docs/send-data/installed-collectors/collector-installation-reference/download-collector-from-static-url)
* [From Sumo Logic](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors)
* [Using the Command Line](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors)
* [Using Collector Management API](/docs/api/collector-management/upgrade-downgrade-collectors)

<span className="getstarted"><a href="https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-collector/rss.xml">RSS Feed</a></span>

---
### September 26, 2022 (19.409-3)

* Security fix: Upgrade Collector JRE to Corretto 8.342.07.4
* Security fix:  CVE-2022-31159 - com.amazonaws:aws-java-sdk-s3
* Security fix: CVE-2022-33980 - org.apache.commons:commons-configuration2
* Bug fix: Stop Collector service if sumojni dll fails to load.

---
### July 20, 2022 (19.403-1)

* Feature: Collector support for Linux ARM/Aarch64 based instances, such as AWS Graviton.
* Security update: Ant updated to 1.9.16. Fixes CVE-2021-36373 and CVE-2021-36374
* Security update: Mina-statemachine updated to 2.1.4. Fixes CVE-2021-41973
* Security update: Netty updated to 4.1.77.Final. Fixes CVE-2021-37136, CVE-2021-37137, CVE-2021-21409, CVE-2021-21295, CVE-2021-21290, CVE-2021-43797 and CVE-2021-21290
* Bug Fix: Collector not properly escaping double quotes present in Active Directory objects
* Bug Fix: Retry with skipping events introduced for windows event collection for certain scenarios where bad events were resulting in retry timeouts
* Known issues when upgrading to this version:
   * Collector running as non-root user. Collector running as non-root user (run as mode) cannot be upgraded through the API/Web UI. It will run and give an error message that the upgrade is not possible. It needs to be upgraded manually on your machine. [Steps to manually upgrade.](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors/#upgrade-collectors-using-the-command-line)
   * Collector running on Mac. Collector running on a Mac operating system cannot be upgraded through the API/Web UI. It will stop. It needs to be restarted manually on your machine if upgraded using WEB API or UI. Steps to manually restart.

---
### July 7, 2022 (19.392-13)

Bug Fix: Upgrade Manager fixes were made to avoid a manual restart after a Collector upgrade.

---
### May 11, 2022 (19.392-6)

Security: Upgraded the Collector JRE to [8.332.08.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.332.08.1) to address several CVEs:

| CVE            | CVSS | Component                   |
|:---------------|:-----|:--------------------------|
| CVE-2022-21476 | 7.5  | security-libs/java.security |
| CVE-2022-21496 | 5.3  | core-libs/javax.naming      |
| CVE-2022-21434 | 5.3  | core-libs/java.lang         |
| CVE-2022-21426 | 5.3  | xml/jaxp                    |


For details, see the changelog [here](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/blob/release-8.332.08.1/CHANGELOG.md).

---
### March 18, 2022 (19.392-4)

* Security: Removed a writeable zero-byte file that was previously included in Debian and RPM installers.
* Bug Fix: Source configuration requests were not sent to the correct deployment.
* Bug Fix: Duplicate Windows events ingested after upgrading to version 19.386-16 and the Windows API returning an incorrect order of events.
* Bug Fix: The Docker Log Source did not retain the indentation of log messages.
* Bug Fix: `Nullpointerexception` resulted in duplication of events.
* Bug Fix: Log4j vulnerability found during installation via RPM method and Docker image.
* Bug Fix: Local File Source multiline boundary regex had an idle timeout issue.
* Bug Fix: Better handling of Active Directory Inventory.

---
### March 3, 2022 (19.386-16)

* Security: Bundled JRE version upgraded to 8.322.06.2.
* Bug fix: Memory leak in Windows Events, record number logic for standard event channels.
* Bug fix: Local Windows Event Log Source ingested in legacy format during upgrade when JSON format selected.
* Bug fix: Collector upgrade failure resulting in collector service stopping.
* Bug fix: Log4j vulnerability in RPM and Debian packages.
* Bug fix: Windows Active Directory Source has more default attributes.
* Bug fix: Security fix for Script Source.
