---
title: 2017 Archive
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
---

This is an archive of 2017 Collector Release Notes. The current Collector Release Notes are [here](/release-notes-collector).

To view the full archive, [click here](/release-notes-collector/archive).

<!--truncate-->

---
### December 20, 2017 (19.209-23)
* The Sumo collector is updated to include the latest Java 8 JRE from Oracle, version 8u152. Collectors bundled with a JRE will automatically be upgraded to JRE version 8u152 upon installation.
* Added support for preserving Access Key in the `user.properties` file after the collector registers with the Sumo service. The new parameter for the command line installer is `-VskipAccessKeyRemoval=true`. The corresponding property in user.properties is `skipAccessKeyRemoval=true`.  
* Added support for specifying the sources for a collector in a directory of JSON source files when registering a collector with cloud-based source configuration. Previously, you could only specify a file with the sources property in the `user.properties` file. Now you can specify a folder of JSON files with the sources property.
* **Bug fix**. Docker stats sources unexpectedly stopped.
* **Bug fix**. Implemented targeted optimizations to reduce CPU usage and disk I/O for certain local file sources.
* **Bug fix**. In some cases, the HTTP sender stopped sending data after loss of connectivity.

---
### October 24, 2017 (19.209-8)
* **Bug fix**. Host metrics sources did not correctly handle source renaming, leading to double ingestion.
* **Bug fix**. Docker stats sources did not honor mask processing rules.
* **Bug fix**. Docker stats sources failed with an “Error getting container info” message in log.

---
### August 31, 2017 (19.209-5)
* As of this release, the Sumo collector is built to target the Java 8 runtime. Java 6 and Java 7 are no longer supported as the collector runtime, and Solaris is no longer supported. When you upgrade collectors, JRE 8 or later is required. The Sumo collector with a bundled JRE now ships with JRE 8, so in this case no action is required.
* This release includes the following reliability fixes and enhancements to the Docker Log source and the Docker Stats source: 
    * **Bug fix**. In the Docker Log source, the multiline detection did not work. 
    * **Bug fix**. Hot retry when connecting to a container failed. 
    * **Bug fix**. The poll interval parameter for the Docker Stat source can now be modified after it is initially defined. 
* Support was added for additional Docker event types. Sumo now supports all Docker event types. For information about Docker event types, see [Monitor Events](https://docs.docker.com/engine/api/v1.30/#operation/SystemEvents) in Docker help.
* This release includes the following security fixes: 
    * **Bug fix**. Command injection in remote ssh tail source. 
    * **Bug fix**. Command injection in .deb/.rpm installer. 
    * **Bug fix**. Update the 3rd-party library Jacob to the latest version (1.18) .
* **Bug fix**. The collector failed to uninstall after downgrade. 
* **Bug fix**. Script source can cause collector upgrade to fail with timeout.
* **Bug fix**. Syslog sources will now trim trailing newline characters from messages
* **Bug fix**. Fixed an crash that occurred when a data forwarding rule regex contained a colon.
* Two restrictions related to configuring sources using JSON files have been removed: 
    * Previously, when configuring all sources in a single JSON file, the sources had to be defined in a `sources` JSON array. Now, you can use `source` elements without enclosing them in a `sources` array. Using the `sources` array is still supported. 
    * Previously, when configuring the collector using a directory of JSON files, only a single source could be defined per JSON file. Now, you can define multiple sources per JSON file. You can specify the multiple sources in a `sources` array, or using a `source` element for each source. 
* **Bug fix**. Masked the password field in the forwarding sink types. 

---
### June 27, 2017 (19.182-44)
* **Bug fix**. Debug information, which may contain the access key, is shown when installing the package on the console.

---
### June 19, 2017 (19.182-43)
* Collector is updated to include the latest Java 8 JRE from Oracle, version 8u131. Collectors bundled with a JRE will automatically be upgraded to JRE8u131 upon installation.
* The Collector now resolves `"{hostname}"`, `"{file}"`, and `"{category}"`tokens in syslog data forwarding to message-specific values. In the past, these tokens were resolved to  cloud-configured values.
* When forwarding data from a syslog source to a syslog endpoint with additional tokens configured, a new header consisting of prival, timestamp, and host will be included at the start of forwarded messages. Previously only prival was appended.
* The collector will now emit information about the resolved IP addresses of the Sumo Logic service to its operational log file. This information is logged during collector startup and shutdown.
* The collector now reports additional information to the Sumo Logic service about the JRE it is executing under.
* **Bug fix**. The collector daemon service could be incorrectly removed after upgrading the Collector using the installer package.
* **Bug fix**. The collector installer could accidentally remove the configuration when running on a machine where the collector was previously installed.
* **Bug fix**. The collector could start more than one thread when monitoring a source JSON configuration file for changes (`syncSources`), leading to source synchronization issues.

---
### April 4, 2017 (19.182-25)
* **Bug fix**. The Docker Log Source may drop or duplicate logs during collection with certain Docker engine configurations.
* **Bug fix**. Unable to upgrade Windows Collector from Web UI. Message indicates unable to remove files.
* **Bug fix**. All changes to configuration properties in the **collector.properties** file are now picked up by the Sumo Logic service.

---
### February 13, 2017 (19.182-17)
* Windows Event Sources now translate SID fields to 'domain/user (SID)' format by default.
* File Sources on Windows now support NTLMv2.
* As a security enhancement, access key is automatically removed from **user.properties** following successful installation.
* The Docker Source can ingest logs and statistics from short-lived containers.
* The Docker Log Source can ingest the last set of logs before a container crashes or terminated.
* Support is added for additional Collector parameters during installation, including hostname, time zone, category, target CPU, and description.  See Installed Collectors.
* **Bug fix**. Certain Collector upgrade failures are now reported immediately in the web UI.
* **Bug fix**. The **cacerts** folder is now preserved when upgrading Collectors using the Installer.
* **Bug fix**. The Docker Log Source now collects final log lines while a container is stopping.
* **Bug fix**. An optional parameter is added during Windows AMI installation to delay registering until the EC2 instance hostname is available.  See Add a Collector to a Windows Machine Image.
* **Bug fix**. Fixes a CPU targeting bug that prevents increasing collection when CPU usage is low.
* **Bug fix**. Adds support for overriding maximum number of threads per Source when CPU targeting is enabled.
* **Bug fix**. Fixes a Collector process CPU usage reporting issue in collector-usage.log.
* **Bug fix**. No longer populates Collector name when installing Collector on a Machine Image.
* **Bug fix**. Allow sources to forward to multiple syslog destinations with the same host and port.
* **Bug fix**. Multi-line messages are now handled correctly when forwarding from a UDP syslog source to a UDP syslog endpoint.

---
### January 12, 2017 (19.170-27)
* Fixed an issue where the Docker Source ingests duplicate messages and produces excessive collector logging if the Source experiences temporary disconnect with the Docker daemon.
* Fixed an issue where the Docker Source collects from less than the configured container limit when container filter is specified.
* **Fix**. Added a socket timeout when connecting to HTTP proxy servers to prevent the Collector from going offline.
