---
title: 2021 Archive
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';



This is an archive of 2021 Collector Release Notes. To view the full archive, [click here](/release-notes-collector/archive).

:::info Looking for older release notes?
Release notes from 2015-2020 have been archived. If you need access to earlier versions, contact Support.
:::

<!--truncate-->

---
### December 29, 2021 (19.375-4)
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to 8.312.07.1.
* Log4j upgraded to 2.17.1.
* **Bug fix**. Windows events were duplicated due to an issue with bookmarking logic.
* **Beta release**. Added support for an upcoming feature that allows you to restart your Installed Collector from the collection management page in the Sumo Logic web interface.

---
### December 19, 2021 (19.361-18)
* Log4j upgraded to 2.17.0 to fix the zero-day exploit affecting the popular Apache Log4j utility ([CVE-2021-45105](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-p6xc-xr62-6r2g)).

---
### December 16, 2021 (19.361-16)
* Log4j upgraded to 2.16.0 to fix the zero-day exploit affecting the popular Apache Log4j utility (CVE-2021-45046).

---
### December 11, 2021 (19.361-12)
* Log4j upgraded to 2.15.0 to fix the zero-day exploit affecting the popular Apache Log4j utility (CVE-2021-44228).

---
### November 1, 2021 (19.361-8)

* The installer is now a trusted vendor of the macOS.
* The Remote Windows Performance Monitor Log Source is removed and no longer supported.

---
### September 15, 2021 (19.361-4)
* **Bug Fix**. Windows Event Log Sources using Allowlist or Denylist filters could filter more data than expected.

---
### August 30, 2021 (19.361-3)
* Bundled JRE upgraded to [8.302.08.1.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.302.08.1).
* Remote Windows Event Log Sources now support autodiscovery of domain controllers and event collection.
* AWS S3 Archive Sources now support ingestion from your Archive with five-minute granularity.
* **Bug Fix**. Registration warnings are logged as WARN types.
* **Bug Fix**. No error message was thrown when creating a Source with an empty logName.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed deadlock that caused remote configuration failure.
* **Bug Fix**. High thread usage.
* **Bug Fix**. Single backslashes were making Active Directory JSON objects invalid in some scenarios.
* **Bug Fix**. Failure to uninstall on macOS.

---
### June 22, 2021 (19.351-4)
* You can collect inventory data from Active Directory Database with a Windows Active Directory Source.
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.292.10.2](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.292.10.2).
* Switched Docker Java dependency from forked version to open source version 3.2.1.
* Security upgrades:
    * Google Guava upgraded to 30.1.1.
    * Log4j upgraded to 2.13.3.
    * Netty upgraded to 4.1.46.
* **Bug Fix**. Installation could fail on Windows systems when the autorun registry was set.
* **Bug Fix**. Collector registration failed with the correct hostname when deployed using an AMI in an autoscaling group.
* **Bug Fix**. Quota reports are now sent after data is successfully collected.
* **Redacted**. Windows Event Log Sources now have filters to allow or deny specific Windows Event IDs.

---
### May 18, 2021 (19.338-5)

:::note macOS
We recommend you upgrade Collectors on macOS collection page or command line instructions. A manual upgrade using the installer package is not recommended.
:::

* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.282.08.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.282.08.1).
* Bundled Jackson version upgraded to [2.11.2](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.fasterxml.jackson.core/jackson-databind/2.11.2).
* Windows Event Sources can now collect forwarded events from a Windows Event Collector.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed Docker metrics ingestion with host network mode.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed Docker Sources malformed chunk errors for docker-java dependency where Jersey version was upgraded from 2.23 to 2.30.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed a permission issue encountered in redacted version 19.338-3 when using the runAs parameter during installation or an upgrade.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed a Windows Events Log Source data duplication issue encountered in redacted version 19.338-4 when upgrading/downgrading the collector version.

Windows Event Log Sources configured to ingest in JSON format could take up to five seconds after an upgrade to resume sending events.

---
### April 6, 2021 (19.338-4)

:::warning
Version retracted.
:::

:::note
For macOS, we recommend you upgrade Collectors on macOS using the Sumo Logic collection page or command line instructions. A manual upgrade using the installer package is not recommended.
:::

* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.282.08.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.282.08.1).
* Bundled Jackson version upgraded to [2.11.2](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.fasterxml.jackson.core/jackson-databind/2.11.2).
* **Beta release**. Windows Event Sources can now collect forwarded events from a Windows Event Collector.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed Docker metrics ingestion with host network mode.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed Docker Sources malformed chunk errors for docker-java dependency where Jersey version was upgraded from 2.23 to 2.30.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed a permission issue encountered in redacted version 19.338-3 when using the runAs parameter during installation or an upgrade.

---
### March 24, 2021 (19.338-3)

:::warning
Version retracted.
:::

* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.282.08.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.282.08.1).
* Bundled Jackson version upgraded to [2.11.2](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.fasterxml.jackson.core/jackson-databind/2.11.2).
* **Beta release**. Windows Event Sources can now collect forwarded events from a Windows Event Collector.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed Docker metrics ingestion with host network mode.
* **Bug Fix**. Fixed Docker Sources malformed chunk errors for docker-java dependency where Jersey version was upgraded from 2.23 to 2.30.
