docs/integrations/google/cloud-bigtable.md, before:

---
id: cloud-bigtable
title: Google Cloud Bigtable
description: Learn about the collection process for the Google Cloud Bigtable service.
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/GoogleCloudBigtable.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

Bigtable is a fully managed wide-column and key-value NoSQL database service for large analytical and operational workloads. For further details refer [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/overview).

## Log and Metric types
* [Platform Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/monitoring-cloudwatch.html)
* [Audit Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/appflow-cloudtrail-logs.html)
* [Google Cloud Metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp)

## Setup
You can collect the logs for Sumo Logic's Google Cloud Bigtable integration by following the below steps.

### Configure logs collection
1. Audit Logs
[Here](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/audit-logging#audit_log_permissions) are the permission and roles required for collecting logs for Bigtable. Enable logging for Google BigTable follow the instruction [here](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/audit-logging#enabling_audit_logging). And [here](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/audit-logging#audited_operations) is the list of audited operation for Bigtable.

2. Platform Logs
Bigtable platform logs include logs related to bigtable instance, cluster, tables and backup.

Log from GCP can be ingested using Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Source, which uses a log sink with Pub/Sub to get the logs to Sumo Logic.

Setup Google Cloud Platform source in Sumo Logic and Pub/Sub & Log sink in GCP by following instructions described [here](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source/). Note that while creating the sync as part of the **Choose logs to include in sink** section you can use the following query : 
```resource.type=(bigtable_instance or bigtable_cluster or bigtable_table or bigtable_backup) or (resource.type=audited_resource and (resource.labels.service=bigtableadmin.googleapis.com or resource.labels.service=bigtable.googleapis.com))```
Bigtable audit logs use the service name **bigtableadmin.googleapis.com** for admin operations and **bigtable.googleapis.com** for data operations.


### Configure metrics collection
Metrics for Cloud Bigtable can be ingested in Sumo Logic using GCP Metric Source. [Here](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/) are the details for creating this source. Note that in the Services dropdown you need to select **Bigtable**

[Here](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-bigtable) is the list of metrics available for Cloud Bigtable.

Commit message:

Changes based on changes done for aws doc only apps here - https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation/pull/2948

docs/integrations/google/cloud-bigtable.md, after:

---
id: cloud-bigtable
title: Google Cloud Bigtable
description: Learn about the collection process for the Google Cloud Bigtable service.
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/GoogleCloudBigtable.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

Bigtable is a fully managed wide-column and key-value NoSQL database service for large analytical and operational workloads. For more details, refer to the [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/overview).

## Log and Metric types
* [Google Cloud Metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp)
* [Platform Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/monitoring-cloudwatch.html)
* [Audit Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/appflow-cloudtrail-logs.html)

## Setup
You can collect the logs and metrics for Sumo Logic's Google Cloud Bigtable integration by following the below steps.

### Configure logs collection
* Collect **Audit Logs** using [Google Cloud Platform source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source). Refer to the [permissions and roles](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/audit-logging#audit_log_permissions) required for accessing audit logs. To enable logging for Google BigTable refer to [Google documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/audit-logging#enabling_audit_logging). For more detail, on Bigtable operations being audited refer to [audited operations](https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/audit-logging#audited_operations). While creating the sync in GCP, as part of the **Choose logs to include in sink** section you can use the following query:
```(resource.type=audited_resource and (resource.labels.service=bigtableadmin.googleapis.com or resource.labels.service=bigtable.googleapis.com))```. 

:::note
Bigtable audit logs use the service name **bigtableadmin.googleapis.com** for admin operations and **bigtable.googleapis.com** for data operations.
:::

* Collect **Platform Logs** using [Google Cloud Platform source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source). Bigtable platform logs include logs related to bigtable instance, cluster, tables and backup. While creating the sync in GCP, as part of the **Choose logs to include in sink** section you can use the following query:
```(resource.type=bigtable_instance or bigtable_cluster or bigtable_table or bigtable_backup)```


### Configure metrics collection
* Collect **GCP Metrics** using the [GCP Metric](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/amazon-aws/aws-kinesis-firehose-metrics-source/) source. Note that in the Services dropdown you need to select **Bigtable**. For Google Bigtable metrics and dimensions, refer to [Google Bigtable metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-bigtable).
