---
title: 2020 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
---

This is an archive of 2020 Collector Release Notes. The current Collector Release Notes are [here](/release-notes-collector).

---
### November 24, 2020 (19.319-4)

:::important
MacOS: We recommend you upgrade Collectors on MacOS using the Sumo Logic collection page or command line instructions. A manual upgrade using the installer package is not recommended.
:::

* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.275.01.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/releases/tag/8.275.01.1).
* Bug Fix: Health Events for Windows Event Log Sources were not updating properly.
* Bug Fix: Windows Event Log collection in JSON format was incorrectly parsing boolean fields as null.
* Bug Fix: Unnecessary character escaping in SNI command line arguments.
* Bug Fix: The vSkipRegistration parameter was not supported with the command line installer when using Installation Tokens.
* Bug Fix: Collector uninstallation issue on MacOS.
* Bug Fix: Fixed vulnerabilities in Docker collection images from Docker Hub.

---
### October 13, 2020 (19.319-2)
* Easily parse your Windows Event Logs with our new capability to ingest them in JSON format. You now have the option to choose between the existing and new JSON format. The new format is more structured and compact than the existing format.

---
### August 25, 2020 (19.308-12)
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.265.01.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/blob/release-8.265.01.1/CHANGELOG.md).

---
### July 28, 2020 (19.308-2)
* Archive has the option to specify an S3 prefix when forwarding data to an AWS Archive Destination with the processing rule "Archive messages that match". This allows you to segment and organize data in your Archive.
* Installed Collectors now send health events to a Health Events framework. Health events for Installed Collectors cover key collection issues that can occur across various Sources such as Windows events, Docker, or Local and Remote File Sources.
* AccountID is new to the list of AWS instance metadata that the Installed Collector extracts from instance identity documents (IMDSv2) in AWS.
* Docker bug fixes: Collection issues when there was a pause in the generation of data and for short-lived containers.
* Bug fix: The Collector could stop ingesting if it’s unable to connect to servers and too many logs are backed-up on disk.

---
### May 11, 2020 (19.288-10)
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.252.09.1](https://github.com/corretto/corretto-8/blob/release-8.252.09.1/CHANGELOG.md#corretto-version-8252091).
* Installed Collectors now use IMDSv2 to collect [AWS instance metadata](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/instance-identity-documents.html).
* Bug Fix: [Docker Stats Sources](/docs/send-data/installed-collectors/sources/docker-sources) for metrics were misconfigured when edited.

---
### February 13, 2020 (19.288-3)
* Syslog forwarding supports the option to forward syslog messages without prepending the Collector hostname and timestamp on messages.
* Installed Collectors on AWS EC2 instances automatically get the **availabilityZone** from AWS instance identity documents.
* Host Metrics Sources collect total CPU usage.
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8.242.08.1](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/corretto/latest/corretto-8-ug/doc-history.html).
* Beta release: For our new Archive feature, we’ve added a new Processing Rule type named **Archive messages that match** that allows you to archive log data at the source level on Installed Collectors. To participate contact your Sumo account executive or sign up for an enterprise trial account. Existing Beta customers should upgrade to this version for our latest security library updates.
* Beta release: Collectors send health event data to Sumo Logic such as file path issues, missing heartbeats, throttling events, and when Ingest Budget capacities are reached. Check out our Service Release Note that provides further details. To participate contact your Sumo Logic account executive or sign up for an enterprise trial account.
* Bug Fix: Docker Log Sources could duplicate logs on container restart.
