---
title: Apps - New and Updates
tags: [apps]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

New - We are excited to announce the release of many Sumo Logic app integrations including MariaDB, Nginx, Nginx Ingress, IIS 10, Oracle, and Squid Proxy.

<!--truncate-->

New - We are delighted to announce the release of the Sumo Logic [MariaDB](https://help.sumologic.com/07Sumo-Logic-Apps/12Databases/MariaDB) app. The MariaDB app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, and resource utilization of MariaDB database clusters. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into the health of your database clusters, performance metrics, resource metrics, schema metrics, replication, error logs, slow queries, Innodb operations, failed logins, and error logs.

New - We are excited to release the Sumo Logic [Nginx](https://help.sumologic.com/07Sumo-Logic-Apps/24Web_Servers/Nginx) app. The Nginx app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your Nginx web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into connections, requests, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

New - We are delighted to release the Sumo Logic [IIS 10](https://help.sumologic.com/07Sumo-Logic-Apps/24Web_Servers/IIS_10) app. The IIS 10 app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your IIS web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into application pools, ASP.NET applications, requests, latency, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

Update - We are excited to release the additional Logs and Metrics dashboards added for the Sumo Logic Oracle app. The [Oracle](https://help.sumologic.com/07Sumo-Logic-Apps/12Databases/Oracle) app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, and resource utilization of Oracle database clusters. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into the health of your database clusters, parallel executions, resource utilization, response time, tablespaces, throughput, wait for class/events, listeners, audit logs, and security.

Update - We are pleased to announce the availability of additional Logs and Metrics dashboards added for the Sumo Logic [Nginx Ingress](https://help.sumologic.com/07Sumo-Logic-Apps/24Web_Servers/Nginx_Ingress) app. The Nginx Ingress app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your Nginx Ingress web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into connections, requests, ingress controller metrics, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

Update - We are delighted to release the additional Logs and Metrics dashboards added for the Sumo Logic [Squid Proxy](https://help.sumologic.com/07Sumo-Logic-Apps/24Web_Servers/Squid_Proxy) app. The Squid Proxy app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor activity in Squid Proxy. The preconfigured dashboards provide insight into served and denied requests; performance metrics; IP domain DNS statistics; traffic details; HTTP response codes; URLs experiencing redirects, client errors, and server errors; and quality of service data that helps you understand your users’ experience.
