---
title: 2025 Release Notes Archive - Collector
image: https://assets-www.sumologic.com/company-logos/_800x418_crop_center-center_82_none/SumoLogic_Preview_600x600.jpg?mtime=1617040082
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';



This is an archive of 2025 Collector Release Notes. To view the full archive, [click here](/release-notes-collector/archive). Release notes are available on our website for a rolling multi-year period. For information about older releases, contact [Support](https://support.sumologic.com/support/s).

<!--truncate-->

---

### December 15, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### New Log Severity Fields

We’ve added two new severity fields, `SeverityNumber` and `SeverityText`, to the OpenTelemetry Collector. These fields provide more comprehensive log data with minimal operational risk, enabling deeper insights and more accurate workflows.

### December 11, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.534-2

In this release, we've enhanced the security and stability of the Collector with added support for security patches.

- Upgraded collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version 17.0.17.10.1**.
- Upgraded `com.tanuki:wrapper` to version 3.6.3.
- Upgraded `org.bouncycastle:bc-fips` to version 1.0.2.6 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2024-8885).
- Known issues when upgrading to this version:
  - **Collector running as non-root user**. Collector running as non-root user (run as mode) cannot be upgraded through the API/Web UI. It displays an error message indicating that the upgrade is not possible. The upgrade must be performed manually on your machine. Follow the [steps to upgrade manually](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors/#upgrade-collectors-using-the-command-line).
  - **Collector running on Mac**. Collector running on a Mac operating system cannot be upgraded through the API/Web UI. The process will stop, and the collector will need to be restarted manually on your machine if upgraded using API or Web UI. Use the below code to manually restart.
    ```
    sudo ./collector start
    ```

### December 03, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### OpenTelemetry Collector

We’re pleased to announce the following updates for OpenTelemetry collectors:
- Collectors can now be installed on Windows using [Ansible](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/install-collector/ansible/), [Chef](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/install-collector/chef/), and [Puppet](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/install-collector/puppet/).
- Remote management is now supported for Ansible, Chef, and Puppet collectors, offering improved flexibility and customization.

### November 20, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### Remote Management for OpenTelemetry Collector

We're happy to announce that Sumo Logic now enables you to remotely update the collector name for OpenTelemetry collectors through the UI in the OpenTelemetry collector edit flow. [Learn more](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/manage-source-templates/#collector-name).

### October 20, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.533-5

In this release, we've added two important updates to Installed Collectors to enhance performance, security, and ensure long-term support.

:::note
Starting January 31, 2026, Sumo Logic will no longer support the collectors using Java Runtime Environment (JRE) versions older than 17 and will end support for Installed Collectors running on WIN 32 machines.

To ensure continued compatibility and support, upgrade your collectors to JRE 17 or later and migrate your collectors to Windows 64-bit or another supported operating system before this date.
:::

##### Java upgrade and end of support for legacy versions

With Java 8 reaching its end of public updates in January 2019, and with newer Java versions offering significant improvements in both performance and security, we are upgrading our Installed Collectors to Java 17. This change applies differently depending on how your collectors are configured:

- **For collectors using default Sumo Logic bundled Corretto JRE**. This deprecation will not affect you as the upgrade to JRE 17 happens automatically when you update your collector to version 19.533-5. *No immediate action is required*.
- **For collectors with custom JRE setups**. If you're using a custom JRE configuration, including binary installer-based deployments, custom deployment scripts, or containerized collectors with JRE 8 or 11, you must manually upgrade to JRE 17 to maintain compatibility and support. After January 31, 2026, your existing collectors will continue to run. However, you will not be able to upgrade or download new collector versions using JRE 8 or 11.

##### End of support for Windows 32-bit (WIN 32) systems

To align with Microsoft’s end-of-life for Windows 32-bit systems and ensure a secure, stable platform for all users, Sumo Logic will end support for Installed Collectors running on WIN 32 machines from January 31, 2026. After this date, the collectors on WIN 32 will no longer be supported and upgrades and new collector downloads for WIN 32 will be disabled.

To maintain support and access to the latest features, migrate your collectors to Windows 64-bit or another supported operating system as soon as possible.

[Learn more](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors/#upgradecollectors-to-the-latest-build).

### October 03, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### Download a collector using the CDN URL

We’re pleased to announce a new method for downloading the latest version of our OpenTelemetry collectors for Linux, macOS, and Windows. While the static URL method is still available, you now have the option to use a CDN URL via UI for better performance.

:::info
This change does not affect the UI itself. The download process looks the same, but the underlying URL now uses a CDN to improve reliability and speed.
:::

### September 30, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.525-63

In this release, we've resolved the JRE upgrade issue that occurred during [collector upgrades](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors/).


### September 10, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### Remote Management for OpenTelemetry Collector

We're happy to announce that Sumo Logic now enables you to remotely update the collector timezone for OpenTelemetry collectors through the UI in the OpenTelemetry collector edit flow. You can select the timezone of your choice while editing the collector. If you do not make a selection, the timezone will be set to `(UTC) Etc/UTC` by default.

[Learn more](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/otrm-time-reference/#specifying-a-custom-timestamp-format-and-time-zone).

### September 09, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### Remote Management for OpenTelemetry Collector

We're happy to announce that Sumo Logic now enables you to add the collector timezone for OpenTelemetry collectors through the UI in the OpenTelemetry collector create flow. You can select the timezone of your choice while creating the collector. If you do not make a selection, the timezone will be set to `(UTC) Etc/UTC` by default.

[Learn more](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/install-collector/linux).

### September 02, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.525-59

In this release, we've upgraded the collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version `8.462.08.1`** to enhance security and optimize performance for faster execution.

### September 02, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### Download a collector using the CDN URL

We’re pleased to announce a new method for downloading the latest version of our installed collectors. While the static URL method is still available, you now have the option to use a CDN URL via UI for better performance.

:::info
This change does not affect the UI itself. The download process looks the same, but the underlying URL now uses a CDN to improve reliability and speed.
:::

### July 02, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.525-44

In this release, we've enhanced the security and stability of the Collector with added support for security patches and a bug fix.

##### Security Fix

- Upgraded collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version 8.452.09.1**.

##### Bug Fix

- Fixed the collector crash issue due to *sigar-amd64-winnt.dll* after Windows update.

### May 14, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.525-42

In this release, we've enhanced the security and stability of the Collector with added support for security patches and a bug fix.

##### Security Fix

- Upgraded `com.google.crypto.tink` to version 1.16.0 to address protobuf-java DOS vulnerability (CVE-2024-7254).

##### Bug Fix

- Fixed the improper filtering of `AD` objects when `Exclude Distinguished Name Suffixes` filter is configured.

### February 18, 2025 (Installed Collector)

#### Version 19.525-1

In this release, we've upgraded the collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version `8.442.06.1`** to enhance stability and optimize performance for faster execution.

### January 08, 2025 (OpenTelemetry Collector)

#### Remote Management for OpenTelemetry Collector

The Sumo Logic Distribution for OpenTelemetry Collector now supports remote management, enabling you to configure and manage data collection directly from the Sumo Logic UI. With this feature, you can:  

* **Simplify configuration**. Set up and manage data collection for multiple collectors without server access.  
* **Streamline workflows**. Use tags to group collectors and apply centralized data source templates, reducing redundancy and manual effort.  
* **Enhance automation**. Automatically monitor new servers by tagging them during setup.  
* **Accelerate time to value**. Start collecting data in minutes with an intuitive UI and no need to manage configuration files.  

This release provides a faster, more efficient way to manage large-scale data collection, supporting scalable and automated operations. [Learn more](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management).  
