docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-basics/about-search-basics.md, before:

---
id: about-search-basics
title: About Search Basics
description: Sumo Logic search syntax is based on a funnel or "pipeline" concept and it uses logical and familiar operators letting you to create ad hoc queries quickly.
---

Our Search Syntax is based on a funnel or "pipeline" concept. The wide mouth of the funnel begins with all your current Sumo Logic data, and
you narrow the funnel by entering keywords and operators separated by pipes (`|`). Each operator acts on the results from the previous
operator so that you can progressively filter and pinpoint your search until you find exactly what you’re looking for.

import Iframe from 'react-iframe';

:::sumo Micro Lesson

How to search data using the Basic Search Mode in Sumo Logic.

<Iframe url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ps2YperJyZo?rel=0"
        width="854px"
        height="480px"
        id="myId"
        className="video-container"
        display="initial"
        position="relative"
        allow="accelerometer; autoplay=1; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
        allowfullscreen
        />

:::

In the **Search** tab, a search query is typically formatted something like this:

`keyword search | parse | where | group-by | sort | limit`

Start with a basic search:

1. Click **+ New** button in the tab bar and select **Log Search**.  

    ![new log search UI buttons.png](/img/search/get-started-search/search-basics/new-log-search-UI-buttons.png)

1. Enter a simple key term like "error" in the search field, or type an asterisk wildcard (`*`) to find all messages. 
1. Hit **Enter** or click **Start**.
1. Sumo Logic returns all the log entries containing the search term in the **Messages** tab below the histogram.

Review a slightly more complex search query to see how queries are formed.

All queries begin with a keyword or string search. Wildcards are allowed including an asterisk (`*`) for zero or more characters and a question mark (`?`) for a single character. Strings can be parsed based on start and stop anchor points in messages, and then aliased as user-created fields. All operators are separated by the pipe symbol (`|`).

Here's an example:

`_sourcecategory=apache | parse "* --" as src_ip | count by src_ip | sort _count`

This query means:

![query syntax](/img/reuse/query-search/query-syntax-new.png)

As queries get longer and more complex, it is a best practice to format your queries by using a soft return before the pipes, such as:

```sql
_sourcecategory=apache
| parse "* --" as src_ip
| count by src_ip | sort _count
```

This method lines up the pipes and makes your query much easier to read.

:::note
Searches can be long and complex, but they are limited to a maximum of 15,000 characters.
:::

## See also

* Learn more about [How to Build a Search](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search).
* Expand the complexity of your search queries with Sumo Logic [search operators](/docs/search/search-query-language/group-aggregate-operators).
* [Save a search](save-search.md) to re-use later or to run as regularly [scheduled searches](/docs/alerts/scheduled-searches/schedule-search) that can be delivered to your email address.
* [Share a link](share-link-to-search.md) to the results of a search query, depending on each user's permissions. To share a link to a search, after your query has run, click **Share** beneath the search query box. This link will be available for three years after it is created. 
* See [Best Practices: Search Rules to Live By](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/best-practices-search) for types on writing efficient searches.

Commit message:

Added rate limit throttling info

docs/search/get-started-with-search/search-basics/about-search-basics.md, after:

---
id: about-search-basics
title: About Search Basics
description: Sumo Logic search syntax is based on a funnel or "pipeline" concept and it uses logical and familiar operators letting you to create ad hoc queries quickly.
---

Our Search Syntax is based on a funnel or "pipeline" concept. The wide mouth of the funnel begins with all your current Sumo Logic data, and
you narrow the funnel by entering keywords and operators separated by pipes (`|`). Each operator acts on the results from the previous
operator so that you can progressively filter and pinpoint your search until you find exactly what you’re looking for.

import Iframe from 'react-iframe';

:::sumo Micro Lesson

How to search data using the Basic Search Mode in Sumo Logic.

<Iframe url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ps2YperJyZo?rel=0"
        width="854px"
        height="480px"
        id="myId"
        className="video-container"
        display="initial"
        position="relative"
        allow="accelerometer; autoplay=1; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
        allowfullscreen
        />

:::

In the **Search** tab, a search query is typically formatted something like this:

`keyword search | parse | where | group-by | sort | limit`

Start with a basic search:

1. Click **+ New** button in the tab bar and select **Log Search**.  

    ![new log search UI buttons.png](/img/search/get-started-search/search-basics/new-log-search-UI-buttons.png)

1. Enter a simple key term like "error" in the search field, or type an asterisk wildcard (`*`) to find all messages. 
1. Hit **Enter** or click **Start**.
1. Sumo Logic returns all the log entries containing the search term in the **Messages** tab below the histogram.

Review a slightly more complex search query to see how queries are formed.

All queries begin with a keyword or string search. Wildcards are allowed including an asterisk (`*`) for zero or more characters and a question mark (`?`) for a single character. Strings can be parsed based on start and stop anchor points in messages, and then aliased as user-created fields. All operators are separated by the pipe symbol (`|`).

Here's an example:

`_sourcecategory=apache | parse "* --" as src_ip | count by src_ip | sort _count`

This query means:

![query syntax](/img/reuse/query-search/query-syntax-new.png)

As queries get longer and more complex, it is a best practice to format your queries by using a soft return before the pipes, such as:

```sql
_sourcecategory=apache
| parse "* --" as src_ip
| count by src_ip | sort _count
```

This method lines up the pipes and makes your query much easier to read.

## Limitations

- Searches can be long and complex, but they are limited to a maximum of 15,000 characters.
- A limit of 100 active concurrent search jobs applies to your organization.

## See also

* Learn more about [How to Build a Search](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search).
* Expand the complexity of your search queries with Sumo Logic [search operators](/docs/search/search-query-language/group-aggregate-operators).
* [Save a search](save-search.md) to re-use later or to run as regularly [scheduled searches](/docs/alerts/scheduled-searches/schedule-search) that can be delivered to your email address.
* [Share a link](share-link-to-search.md) to the results of a search query, depending on each user's permissions. To share a link to a search, after your query has run, click **Share** beneath the search query box. This link will be available for three years after it is created. 
* See [Best Practices: Search Rules to Live By](/docs/search/get-started-with-search/build-search/best-practices-search) for types on writing efficient searches.
