---
title: Jan 2022 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
authors:
  - name: Sumo Logic Docs Team
    url: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation
---

Archive of January 2022 Service Release Notes.

---
## January 26, 2022 (Software Development Optimization)

New - The SDO App now provides a [Software Development Optimization - Development & Delivery Times](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/sdo/view-sdo-dashboards) dashboard to help you monitor development lead times and delivery lead times across the three main phases of development and delivery: Active Development, Review and Merge, and Deployment. Each section shows the phases broken down by team, service, and environment.


---
## January 19, 2022 (Traces)

New - Traces now include [Span Events](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/apm/traces/Working-with-Tracing-data/View-and-investigate-traces#Span_Events) that describe and contextualize the work being done in a Span by tracing and displaying that data in Trace Views. These events are optional time-stamped strings made up of a timestamp, name, and (optional) key-value pair attributes. Select a marker in the timeline or a span to review the Span Event data.


---
## January 18, 2022 (Apps)

New - We are delighted to announce the release of the Sumo Logic [MariaDB](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/databases/MariaDB) app. The MariaDB app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, and resource utilization of MariaDB database clusters. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into the health of your database clusters, performance metrics, resource metrics, schema metrics, replication, error logs, slow queries, Innodb operations, failed logins, and error logs.

New - We are excited to release the Sumo Logic [Nginx](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/web-servers/Nginx) app. The Nginx app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your Nginx web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into connections, requests, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

New - We are delighted to release the Sumo Logic [IIS 10](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/web-servers/iis-10) app. The IIS 10 app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your IIS web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into application pools, ASP.NET applications, requests, latency, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

Update - We are excited to release the additional Logs and Metrics dashboards added for the Sumo Logic [Oracle](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/databases/oracle) app. The Oracle app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, and resource utilization of Oracle database clusters. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into the health of your database clusters, parallel executions, resource utilization, response time, tablespaces, throughput, wait for class/events, listeners, audit logs, and security.

Update - We are pleased to announce the availability of additional Logs and Metrics dashboards added for the Sumo Logic [Nginx Ingress](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/web-servers/Nginx-Ingress) app. The Nginx Ingress app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor the availability, performance, health, and resource utilization of your Nginx Ingress web servers. Preconfigured dashboards and searches provide insight into connections, requests, ingress controller metrics, visitor locations, visitor access types, traffic patterns, errors, web server operations, and access from known malicious sources.

Update - We are delighted to release the additional Logs and Metrics dashboards added for the Sumo Logic [Squid Proxy](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/web-servers/Squid-Proxy) app. The Squid Proxy app is a unified logs and metrics app that helps you monitor activity in Squid Proxy. The preconfigured dashboards provide insight into served and denied requests; performance metrics; IP domain DNS statistics; traffic details; HTTP response codes; URLs experiencing redirects, client errors, and server errors; and quality of service data that helps you understand your users’ experience.

---
## January 4, 2022 (Dashboard)

New - You now have the ability to configure how often a [dashboard is refreshed](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/dashboards-new) by clicking the dropdown arrow next to the refresh icon.

---

In the Sumo Logic Service Release Notes, you'll find the latest features and bug fixes for our apps, alerts, security, search, observability, data collectors, and more.

<span className="getstarted"><a href="https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml">RSS Feed</a></span>
