---
title: August 2022 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
authors:
  - name: Sumo Logic Docs Team
    url: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation
---

Archive of August 2022 Service Release Notes.


---
## August 30, 2022 (Metrics)

We're delighted to announce the availability of these new operators:

* [stddev](/docs/metrics/metrics-operators/stddev)—Calculates the standard deviation of the metrics values that match the query.
* [in](/docs/metrics/metrics-operators/in)—You can use this operator in a metrics query selector as shorthand for multiple OR conditions.

---
## August 25, 2022 (Collection)

Update - We are pleased to announce that the following [Cloud-to-Cloud Integration Framework[docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework] sources are now available in Sumo Logic’s FedRAMP deployment:

* [Crowdstrike](docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/crowdstrike-source.md)
* [Crowdstrike FDR](docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/crowdstrike-fdr-source.md)
* [Duo](docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/duo-source.md)
* [Sentinel One Mgmt API](docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/sentinelone-mgmt-api-source.md)
* [Proofpoint Tap](docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/proofpoint-tap-source.md)

---
## August 17, 2022 (Search)

Update - For Enterprise Suite customers, we’ve doubled the number of [Fields](/docs/manage/Fields) you can create. The per account Fields limit is now 400. The limit applies to Fields that you configure for sources or collectors and those you create using [Field Extraction Rules](/docs/manage/Field-Extractions).

---
## August 8, 2022 (Search)

The new UI for creating and managing [Scheduled Views](/docs/manage/Scheduled-Views) that we described [last week](#august-4-2022-search) is now released.

---
## August 5, 2022 (Apps)

New - We’re happy to announce the release of The Sumo Logic App for [Host Metrics (EC2)](docs/integrations/amazon-aws/ec2-cloudwatch-metrics.md). This App allows you to collect your EC2 instance metrics using Sumo Logic Installed Collector and display them using predefined search queries and Dashboards. The App provides Dashboards to analyze EC2 instance metrics for CPU, disk, memory, and network.

Update - We are glad to update that the Sumo Logic App for [MongoDB Atlas](/docs/integrations/databases/mongodb-atlas) now allows you to monitor database operations and performance KPIs and provides visibility into the security posture of your clusters.

---
## August 4, 2022 (Search)

Update - We’re preparing to release a new UI for creating and managing [Scheduled Views](/docs/manage/Scheduled-Views). The rollout will commence the week of August 8, 2022. The new interface is clean and compact—now you'll be able to configure a new Scheduled View in a right-hand pane that appears next to the list of existing Scheduled Views.


---
## August 3, 2022 (Observability)

New - We're thrilled to announce our new Observability feature, Reliability Management, a foundational capability that helps you define, monitor and manage your modern app stacks to Service Level Objectives (SLOs). Managing SLOs is key to ensuring that modern app stacks are performing reliably for end users. SLOs also help you focus on measuring what matters for their end user’s digital experiences. As a result, they can streamline Observability by minimizing the monitoring and alert chaos that exists in many organizations. Benefits include:

* Simple experience for Site Reliability Engineers (SREs) and developers to define and monitor even their most complex SLOs
* Full-featured SLOs that can model any SRE requirement and leverage logs, metrics, and tracing telemetry
* Automation through Terraform, allowing developers and SREs to templatize, operationalize and manage SLOs as code
* SLO data available as log messages enabling customers to extend existing dashboards to feature SLO data or build proprietary dashboard experiences

See our [Reliability Management](/docs/Observability/Reliability-Management-slo) docs for more information.

---
## August 3, 2022 (Traces)

Update - we've increased data retention for Trace queries from 7 days to 15 days, allowing for more time to search, filter, and diagnose recent issues. This 15-day extension comes at no additional cost. For more information, see [Viewing and Investigating Traces](/docs/apm/traces/Working-with-Tracing-data/View-and-investigate-traces).

---
## August 2, 2022 (Observability)

Update - We’re happy to announce the release of our **AWS Observability Solution v2.5.0**, which includes.

* Enhanced dashboards for [EC2 Host OS Metrics](docs/observability/aws/integrations/aws-ec2-metrics.md), including support for [Amazon EC2 CloudWatch](/docs/observability/aws/integrations/AWS-EC2-Metrics): now you can monitor your EC2 instances via CloudWatch and Installed Collector simultaneously and see results side-by-side.
* Support for [Amazon SNS](/docs/observability/aws/integrations/) - we’ve added out-of-the-box dashboards with the most important information about messages, events, and errors illustrating SNS health and reliability.
* Enhanced dashboards for supported Amazon services - the following services were updated and revamped DynamoDB, API Gateway, RDS, EC2 Metrics, ElastiCache, and All Load Balancers.
* New CLI-based onboarding flow: now, you can roll out a comprehensive AWS monitoring with just a single CLI command by providing your AWS and Sumo credentials.
* Streamlining of Root Cause Explorer drill-downs. While you can still find your AWS anomalies in the RCE screen from the new menu and Entities panel, we have removed RCE dedicated “Events of interests” dashboards from the top-level Dashboards drop-down menu.
* Simplified TerraForm onboarding process by importing Field Extraction Rules (FERs).
* Bug fixes.

---

In the Sumo Logic Service Release Notes, you'll find the latest features and bug fixes for our apps, alerts, security, search, observability, data collectors, and more.

<span className="getstarted"><a href="https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml">RSS Feed</a></span>
