---
title: May 2022 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
authors:
  - name: Sumo Logic Docs Team
    url: https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation
---

Archive of May 2022 Service Release Notes.


---
## May 27, 2022 (Metrics)

Update - We’re making some architectural changes to the Sumo Logic Metrics Engine to support on-going functionality and scalability improvements. The changes may have some impact on query language semantics for queries that use aggregation or reducer operators.

For aggregation queries, the changes are limited to the metadata used to label the metric dimension in the Preview Table in the Metrics Explorer, and in the chart legend. For queries with reducer functions–`eval`, `filter`, `topk`, `bottomk`–there may be a slight difference in how we quantize the metric data. The engine updates will be rolled out starting on **June 13, 2022**. For information how the updates might affect existing metrics queries, and how you can update existing queries to avoid any impact, see ​​[Metrics Engine Updates](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/metrics/Metric-Queries-Alerts).  

---
## May 23, 2022 (Traces)

New - We're happy to announce that you can now instrument Lambda layers for Java in [container-based Lambda functions](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/apm/traces/get-started-transaction-tracing/opentelemetry-instrumentation/aws-lambda-java) and then see these Traces in Sumo Logic.

---
## May 20, 2022 (Alerts)

Updated - We’re pleased to announce the availability of permissions for Monitors folders. This feature enables folder-level control of who can view, update, create, delete, and manage Monitors. For more information, see [Grant permissions to Monitors](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/alerts/monitors#Grant_permissions_to_Monitors_folders) folders.

This feature is not enabled by default. Contact Sumo Logic Support to have it enabled.

---
## May 16, 2022 (Apps)

Update - We've improved your Sumo Logic app installation process and added guidance to make it easier to find the sources you need and get started faster with all the dashboards and pre-built queries we have waiting for you.

---
## May 11, 2022 (Alerts)

New - The new default payloads are now available for the following connections using [new variables](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/connections-integrations/webhook-connections/set-up-webhook-connections).

* AWS Lambda  
* Azure Functions  
* Cloud SOAR  
* Datadog  
* HipChat  
* Jira  
* Microsoft Teams  
* New Relic  
* PagerDuty  
* ServiceNow  
* ServiceNow (Legacy)  
* Slack  
* Webhook

---
## May 10, 2022 (Apps)

New - We are excited to announce the Sumo Logic [1Password](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/integrations/1password) App release. You can now monitor your 1Password account’s sign-in and item usage events. The dashboards help in providing insights into failed authentications, successful authentication, event breakdown by client applications, type, category, users, geolocation of events, outliers, and threat analysis of sign-in events. This app also helps you secure your 1Password vault access by providing insights into user actions and threat intel analysis on clients accessing items in shared vaults.

---

In the Sumo Logic Service Release Notes, you'll find the latest features and bug fixes for our apps, alerts, security, search, observability, data collectors, and more.

<span className="getstarted"><a href="https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml">RSS Feed</a></span>
