---
title: Security Foundations (Apps)
image: https://www.sumologic.com/img/logo.svg
keywords:
  - apps
  - app catalog
  - saas cloud
  - security analytics
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

We’re excited to announce the Sumo Logic Security Foundations app. This new app provides content to set up and execute threat detection alerts based on the MITRE framework, providing feature-packed dashboards that not only show you the most important alerts to investigate, but also the entities that pose the greatest risk. Here are some of the key features the new app offers:

* **Alerts analysis**. Get a holistic view into the alerts generated from rules, including the top 10 alerts, alert geolocations, unusual alerts, and alert spikes.
* **Entity risk assessment**. View the high-risk Entities in your system for a selected time period.
* **MITRE ATT&CK correlation**. See the top 10 alerts, including their [MITRE ATT&CK](https://attack.mitre.org/) tactics and techniques, and the Entities involved. Click an Entity name to drill down to see rules and MITRE ATT&CK tactics and techniques involved in security events for that Entity.
* **Behavior Learning**. Reduce alert fatigue and eliminate false positives by leveraging Sumo Logic’s built-in machine learning capabilities.

Due to advanced features and configurations, a Professional Services engagement is required to set up and configure this app and its data sources. Check out our technical documentation [here](/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/security-foundations/) to learn how you can set up and use the Sumo Logic Security Foundations app.