---
title: Enhancements to rate & delta Operators (Metrics)
image: https://www.sumologic.com/img/logo.svg
keywords:
  - metrics operators
  - rate
  - delta
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

We've added the following enhancements to our `rate` and `delta` operators, elevating the capabilities for analyzing metrics in time series data.

The rate operator now offers two different modes for calculating the rate of change between data points.
  * **Regular rate mode**. Calculates the rate of change between consecutive data points. It divides the difference in values by the difference in timestamps (in milliseconds) and scales it up to a per-second rate.
  * **Rate Over mode**. Allows you to calculate the average rate of change over a specified time window. It considers the first and last metric values within the given interval, providing insights into metric trends and fluctuations over time.

* **Increasing and Decreasing Options**. The rate operator now provides additional options for calculating the rate of change. By using the `increasing` or `decreasing` option, you can make the rate operator consider only positive or negative rate values, respectively.

* **Support for Counters**. Both the `rate` and `delta` operators now support a dedicated counter mode when working with counters. This counter mode accounts for counter resets and ensures that the operators always return non-negative values.
  * In the **rate** operator, use the `rate counter` syntax to calculate the increase in counter value between data points, considering counter resets.
  * In the **delta** operator, use the `delta counter` syntax to determine the difference in counter values between consecutive data points, accounting for counter resets.

Leverage the new features in the `rate` and `delta` operators to make data-driven decisions and gain a detailed understanding of your metrics. Learn more about [`rate`](/docs/metrics/metrics-operators/rate) and [`delta`](/docs/metrics/metrics-operators/delta) operators.
