---
title: New SaaS Apps (Apps)
image: https://www.sumologic.com/img/logo.svg
keywords:
  - apps
  - app catalog
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

We've released several new SaaS apps for Sumo Logic:

New - [Airtable](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/airtable) monitors and analyzes your organization's Airtable audit logs.

New - [Armis](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/armis) provides visibility into Armis alerts and device data, making it easier to monitor and manage your device security.

New - [Cisco Umbrella](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/cisco-umbrella) provides analytics and insights into your Cisco Umbrella DNS, Proxy, and Admin activity.

New - [Citrix Cloud](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/citrix-cloud) monitors and analyzes configuration changes and actions that may have impacted your environment and account administrators.

New - [DocuSign](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/docusign) monitors and secures your DocuSign account by providing real-time insights into critical events, alerts, and user activity.

New - [Dropbox](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/dropbox) monitors and analyzes Dropbox usage data for your organization, offering insight into user activity, file access, sharing, and collaboration.

New - [KnowBe4](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/knowbe4) monitors and analyzes KnowBe4 Phishing Security logs.

New - [Microsoft Graph Identity Protection](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/microsoft-graph-identity-protection) provides organizations with advanced security monitors and analytics capabilities for their Microsoft Graph Identity Protection data.

New - [Miro](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/miro) provides visibility into Miro audit logs to ensure the security and compliance of your Miro environment.

New - [SentinelOne](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/sentinelone) monitors and analyzes data from your SentinelOne Threats and Agents logs.
