---
title: New SaaS Apps for Sumo Logic
image: https://www.sumologic.com/img/logo.svg
keywords:
  - apps
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

We've released several new apps for Sumo Logic:

* [Airtable](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/airtable) monitoring and analyzing your organization's Airtable audit logs.
* [Armis](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/armis) offers enhanced visibility into both alerts and device data, making it easier to monitor and manage your device security.
* [Cisco Umbrella](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/cisco-umbrella) provides analytics and visibility into DNS, Proxy, and Admin activity
* [Citrix Cloud](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/citrix-cloud) monitoring and analyzing any changes in the configurations or actions that had an impact on the environment and other account administrators.
* [DocuSign](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/docusign) monitor and secure your DocuSign account by providing real-time insights into critical events, alerts, and user activity.
* [Dropbox](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/dropbox) monitor and analyze Dropbox usage data for your organization, offering insight into user activity, file access, sharing, and collaboration.
* [KnowBe4](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/knowbe4) monitoring and analyzing KnowBe4 Phishing Security logs.
* [Microsoft Graph Identity Protection](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/microsoft-graph-identity-protection) provides organizations with advanced security monitoring and analytics capabilities for their Microsoft Graph Identity Protection data.
* [Miro](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/miro) visibility into Miro audit logs to ensure the security and compliance of your Miro environment.
* [SentinelOne](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/sentinelone) quickly ingest data from your SentinelOne agents into Sumo Logic for real-time analysis. monitoring and analyzing your organization's SentinelOne Threats and Agents logs.
