---
title: New and Improved Sumo Logic UI
image: https://www.sumologic.com/img/logo.svg
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

New - We've rolled out our new and improved user interface (UI) that simplifies the Sumo Logic navigation and information architecture and overall experience.

streamline and declutter to enhance usability. Join our journey toward a more user-friendly UI! We would love your feedback.

Here are some ways we’ve streamlined the product experience:

* You can access our more powerful capabilities, such as AWS Observability, Kubernetes (K8s), and Alerts, directly from the menu.
* Your recents and favorites are more contextual. Instead of a flat list of all recent items and favorited items, they are now pre-filtered based on the area of the product you are accessing.
* To streamline the left nav, we've moved Administration, Configuration, Help, and User Preferences, to the global application toolbar located on the top right side navigation.

Simplifying and Unifying the Navigation
Converging observability and security use cases is essential to operate and secure modern digital apps. With that in mind, Sumo Logic expanded its offering from a log analytics product to a platform that solves Observability and Security use cases. However, the existing information architecture and the navigation did not support a seamless integration or provide a consistent experience to our customers. The feedback was that practitioners do not want to switch between two or three different experiences to get their jobs done.

With this UI redesign, we are bringing over Observability, SEIM, and SOAR offerings in one unified navigation to all users.


Simplifying the UI = Better Performance

As part of this change, we eliminated in-app tabs to create a more straightforward and responsive navigation. This decision was influenced by years of valuable feedback from Sumo Logic users who highlighted usability issues with the in-app tabs and preferred a consistent browsing experience similar to other web applications. Now, you can utilize browser tabs, session history, the back button, favorites, and other native browser capabilities you're familiar with.

We had to optimize the performance of in-app tabs by limiting the number of tabs users can have and reloading content on tab switches. These limitations led to multiple issues reported by customers. We are glad to have resolved these issues.

By removing the overhead of in-app tab management, we can improve the performance of the Sumo Logic app. We understand that when our customers use the product to troubleshoot incidents, they expect a fast and efficient experience. With this simplification of the UI, we achieved significant improvements in two primary metrics:
First Contentful Paint (FCP): ~90% improvement (synthetic), 75% improvement (RUM)
Time to Interactivity (TTI): ~27% improvement (synthetic), 50% improvement (RUM)

Simplifying sharing experience: Stateful URLs
Another improvement we made as part of redesigning the UI is making our URLs stateful. In your troubleshooting experience, collaboration within your team is crucial. We have made it easier for you to share content with your team members because now, any changes you make in your UI will be reflected in the URL parameters. This allows you to easily share the exact state of the page with your teammates. Copy and paste the URL to share!

Example:
https://prod.sumologic.net/log-search/8fdb8050-1082-4483-996d-a584b041fbe2?queryString=_sourceCategory%3Dotel%2Flinux%2FAzure+%7C+count+by+_source&timerangeText=-15m&endTimestamp=1692313828726&startTimestamp=1692303028726&byReceiptTime=false&parsingMode=intelligent&logsQueryMode=Advanced&queryName=Search&sessionId=14C2F6B1B3499F45

## Feedback

More to come. We are excited about the journey ahead and look forward to a broader unification of capabilities, user experience, and workflows. Consolidating tools, functionality, and user experience will reduce the time to value for our customers. As part of our mission to "empower the people who power modern, digital business," we will continue to innovate and deliver.

For further assistance, don't hesitate to get in touch with us on the ux-feedback@sumologic.com. We are here to provide support and guidance to improve your Sumo Logic experience.
