---
title: CloudQuery in Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS - Preview (Apps)
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
keywords:
  - apps
  - app catalog
  - cloud infrastructure security
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

We're excited to announce increased visibility into your AWS Cloud environment with out-of-the-box security policy checks, AI-powered remediation plans, automated remediation playbooks, and additional investigation capabilities.

Customers can now choose to leverage the out-of-the-box policy checks instead of, or in conjunction with, the policy checks provided by AWS Security Hub. Cloud Infrastructure Security is now configured by default to use the out-of-the box policy checks. The update includes the addition of three new dashboards: 
* **Infrastructure Overview**. Get deep visibility into your cloud infrastructure to understand how many cloud resources are running and their configurations.
* **Security Control Failures Overview**. See misconfigurations in your environment that may leave you vulnerable to attackers. 
* **Security Control Failures Investigation**. Navigate and prioritize the most important misconfigurations in your environment.

As part of this update, you can use CloudQuery logs with Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS. To use the logs, configure the CloudQuery source when installing Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS.

This functionality is in preview. To participate, reach out to your Sumo Logic Account Executive.

[Learn more](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#cloudquery-preview).
