---
title: Expanding Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS Capabilities (Apps)
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
keywords:
  - apps
  - app catalog
  - aws
  - cloud infrastructure security
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

We're excited to announce the general availability of new capabilities in Cloud Infrastructure for AWS. These capabilities were [previously only available in a preview form](/release-notes-service/2024/05/13/apps/). They are now available for general use.

You now have increased visibility into your AWS Cloud environment with the following new features:
* **Out-of-the-box security policy checks**. Sumo Logic Cloud Infrastructure Security is now configured by default to use the out-of-the box policy checks. You can now choose to leverage the out-of-the-box policy checks instead of, or in conjunction with, the policy checks provided by AWS Security Hub. 
* **Additional investigation capabilities**. The update includes the addition of three new dashboards:
   * [**Infrastructure Overview**](/docs/security/cloud-infrastructure-security/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#infrastructure-overview). Get deep visibility into your cloud infrastructure to understand how many cloud resources are running and their configurations.
   * [**Security Control Failures Overview**](/docs/security/cloud-infrastructure-security/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#security-control-failures-overview). See misconfigurations in your environment that may leave you vulnerable to attackers.
   * [**Security Control Failures Investigation**](/docs/security/cloud-infrastructure-security/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#security-control-failures-investigation). Navigate and prioritize the most important misconfigurations in your environment.
* **AI-powered remediation plans**. You can now use automated remediation playbooks built specifically for Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS.

[Learn more](/docs/security/cloud-infrastructure-security/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/).

