---
title: Expanding Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS Capabilities - Preview (Apps)
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
keywords:
  - apps
  - app catalog
  - aws
  - cloud infrastructure security
hide_table_of_contents: true
authors:
  - url: https://help.sumologic.com/release-notes-service/rss.xml
    image_url: /img/release-notes/rss-orange.png
---

We're excited to announce increased visibility into your AWS Cloud environment with the following new features:
* **Out-of-the-box security policy checks**. Sumo Logic Cloud Infrastructure Security is now configured by default to use the out-of-the box policy checks. You can now choose to leverage the out-of-the-box policy checks instead of, or in conjunction with, the policy checks provided by AWS Security Hub. 
* **Additional investigation capabilities**. The update includes the addition of three new dashboards:
   * [**Infrastructure Overview**](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#infrastructure-overview). Get deep visibility into your cloud infrastructure to understand how many cloud resources are running and their configurations.
   * [**Security Control Failures Overview**](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#security-control-failures-overview). See misconfigurations in your environment that may leave you vulnerable to attackers.
   * [**Security Control Failures Investigation**](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#security-control-failures-investigation). Navigate and prioritize the most important misconfigurations in your environment.
* **AI-powered remediation plans**. You can now use automated remediation playbooks built specifically for Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS.

This functionality is in preview. To participate, reach out to your Sumo Logic Account Executive.

[Learn more](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws).

:::note
As part of the preview, you can use CloudQuery logs with Cloud Infrastructure Security for AWS. To use the logs, configure the CloudQuery source when you [deploy the solution](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloud-infrastructure-security-for-aws/#step-3-deploy-aws).
:::
