---
title: Apps, Solutions, and Collection Integrations - August Release 
image: https://assets-www.sumologic.com/company-logos/_800x418_crop_center-center_82_none/SumoLogic_Preview_600x600.jpg?mtime=1617040082
keywords:
  - apps
  - august-release
hide_table_of_contents: true    
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';



### New release

We’re excited to announce the release of the new Azure Event Hubs app and OpenTelemetry Collector Insights app for Sumo Logic.

- **Azure Event Hubs**. The Azure Event Hubs app helps monitor data plane operations, such as sending or receiving events, and tracks performance metrics, including consumer lag, throughput, and active connections. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-event-hubs/).
- **OpenTelemetry Collector Insights**. The OpenTelemetry Collector Insights app provides end-to-end monitoring for your OpenTelemetry Collector instances, enabling you to track performance, data flow, and resource utilization. Use preconfigured dashboards and alerts to troubleshoot issues and ensure your telemetry pipeline runs smoothly and efficiently. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/opentelemetry-collector-insights/).

### Enhancements

- **Azure Virtual Machine**. Automated Metric Rule creation during app install. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-virtual-machine/#installing-the-azure-virtual-machine-app).
- **CircleCI Integration**. Updated the CircleCI integration to handle the BLOCKED job state.
- **AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM)**. Released the following SAM:
    - `sumologic-app-utils` - SemanticVersion 2.0.21
    - `sumologic-s3-logging-auto-enable` - SemanticVersion 1.0.18
    - `sumologic-guardduty-benchmark` - SemanticVersion 1.0.18
    - `sumologic-aws-cloudtrail-benchmark` - SemanticVersion 1.0.21
- **Windows ST**. A flag to prevent the collector from shutting down when it fails to open the event log channel; instead, it logs a warning.

### Bug Fixes

- **Groovy script of Jenkins plugin**. The Groovy script used in the Jenkins plugin has been updated to automate input handling with the correct data type.
- **Jenkins plugin**. Released with dependency upgrades and vulnerability fixes.
