---
title: Apps, Solutions, and Collection Integrations - October Release 
image: https://assets-www.sumologic.com/company-logos/_800x418_crop_center-center_82_none/SumoLogic_Preview_600x600.jpg?mtime=1617040082
keywords:
  - apps
  - october-release
hide_table_of_contents: true    
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

### New release


- **Azure OpenAI**. The Azure OpenAI app enables you to track the request volume, token usage, response latency, and error rates, to ensure efficient model utilization and reliable AI-driven application performance. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-open-ai/).

### AWS Observability Solution v2.13.0

**New release**:

- Added tag support for AWS resources created with Terraform based AWS Observability (AWSO) Solution. [Learn more](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-solution-templates/releases/tag/v2.13.0).

**Enhancements**:

- Enhanced the app installation and sharing workflow within the Admin Recommended folder for smoother management and collaboration.
- Integrated updated EC2, Lambda, and RDS apps with AWSO Solution.
- Upgraded the AWS provider to support versions `>= 5.16.2` and `< 7.0.0`.
- Updated the minimum required Terraform version to `1.5.7`.
- Addressed CVEs identified in Python and Go modules.
- Updated the following SAM app versions:
    - `sumologic-app-utils` - `2.0.21`.
    - `sumologic-s3-logging-auto-enable` - `1.0.18`.

**Deprecation**:

- The Global Intelligence for AWS CloudTrail DevOps app is scheduled for deprecation in the near future and, as a result, has been removed from the AWS Observability Solution.
- Deprecated AWS Observability Solution v2.8.0 and earlier due to their dependence on [Node.js 18](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-runtimes.html#runtimes-deprecated), which is deprecated in the AWS Lambda runtime as of September 1, 2025.
- Amazon will deprecate the [AWS Lambda runtime](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-runtimes.html) Node.js 20 on April 30, 2026. AWS Observability Solution versions v2.9.0, v2.10.0, and v2.11.0 use Node.js 20 and will therefore be deprecated and no longer supported starting May 1, 2026. Sumo Logic encourages you to upgrade to the [latest version](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-solution-templates/releases) of the AWS Observability Solution to ensure continued support.

### App Enhancements

* Sumo Logic has introduced a new app category (AI/ML) in the Sumo Logic App Catalog.
* Updated the Azure Machine Learning app to monitor nested namespace metrics.
* Updated 9 AWS-related apps, including [AWS API Gateway](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/api-gateway/), [Application Load Balancer (ALB)](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/application-load-balancer/), [Classic Load Balancer](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/classic-load-balancer/), [Network Load Balancer (NLB)](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/network-load-balancer/), [EC2](/docs/platform-services/automation-service/app-central/integrations/aws-ec2), [ElastiCache](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/elasticache/), [RDS](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/rds/), [Lambda](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/lambda/), and [SNS](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/sns/), to enhance CloudTrail ARN pattern parsing and improve CloudTrail dashboards for ALB and NLB.

### Integration Enhancements

Updated the Sumo Logic Lambda Extension to version 1.3.0. [Learn more](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-lambda-extensions/releases/tag/v1.3.0).
* Upgraded Golang to version 1.24 with CVE fixes.
* Updated the base container image.
* Enhanced error handling for improved reliability.
* Fixed issues identified by golangci-lint.
* Migrated from `aws-sdk-go` to `aws-sdk-go-v2` for better performance and modularity.

### Bug Fixes

- AWS CloudTrail specific FER for AWS Network Load Balancer and AWS Application Load Balancer apps.

### Deprecation

The method of collecting metrics using [Azure Resource Manager (ARM)](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/azure-monitoring/collect-metrics-azure-monitor/) will be deprecated and no longer supported starting January 1, 2026. Refer to the updated approach using [Azure Metric Source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/microsoft-source/azure-metrics-source/), which offers improved functionality and ongoing support.