---
id: Global-intelligence-deprecation-Apacahe-Tomcat-NGINX
title: Deprecation of the Global Intelligence Service for Apache, the Global Intelligence Service for Apache Tomcat, and the Global Intelligence Service for NGINX
description: Global Intelligence Service for Apache, Global Intelligence Service for Apache Tomcat, and Global Intelligence Service for NGINX apps have reached their end-of-life and are no longer supported.
---

<head>
 <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

As part of our ongoing evaluation of the Sumo Logic service, our product team will be deprecating the Global Intelligence Service for Apache, the Global Intelligence Service for Apache Tomcat, and the Global Intelligence Service for NGINX. These services will no longer be available as of 19 January 2026.

## Why is this happening?

We identified an opportunity to increase efficiency in under-utilized areas and focus on new high-value areas, including Agentic AI capabilities.

## What is happening?

After the end-of-life date of 19 January 2026, the Global Intelligence Service for Apache, the Global Intelligence Service for Apache Tomcat, and the Global Intelligence Service for NGINX will no longer be accessible as standalone operations from the main Sumo Logic page and will be removed from the App Catalog.

## What do I need to do?

There are no specific preparations or actions that you need to take as a result of this deprecation and end-of-life. As of the end-of-life date, the Global Intelligence Service for Apache, the Global Intelligence Service for Apache Tomcat, and the Global Intelligence Service for NGINX will no longer be available in Sumo Logic. This change will not impact any other existing features or functionality that you may be using.

For any additional questions, please reach out to your Sumo Logic Account team or [open a support ticket](https://support.sumologic.com/support/s/) with our Customer Support Team.
