---
id: Global-intelligence-deprecation-Apacahe-Tomcat-NGINX
title: Deprecation of GIS Apache, GIS Apache Tomcat and GIS NGINX Apps
description: Global Intellegince Services for Apache, Global Intellegince Services for Apache Tomcat and Global Intellegince Services for NGINX Apps have reached its end of life and are no longer supported.
---

<head>
 <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

As part of our ongoing evaluation of the Sumo Logic service, our product team will be derecating GIS for Apache, GIS for Apache Tomcat and GIS for NGINX Apps, will no longer be available as of 19 Jan 2026. After observing low customer usage trends for the above mentioned GIS Apps over time since its release, we believe this to be the best course of action and refocus our development efforts towards more critical features in the product.

## Why is this happening?

* **Low customer usage**. Data collected over the past year indicates significantly low engagement with GIS Apps, with only a small fraction of our user base utilizing the feature. This trend suggests that the feature does not meet a broad user need or has not been effectively integrated into user workflows.
* **Limited scope and effectiveness**. GIS Apps mentioned operates within a narrow scope, limiting its applicability across our user base. While user feedback indicates that the tool excels at visualizing different drifts and events of interest, it falls short in effectively identifying the underlying cause of issues.

## What is happening?

After the end-of-life date of GIS for Apache, GIS for Apache Tomcat and GIS for NGINX Apps on 19 Jan 2026, the apps are no longer available both as an independent operation from the main Sumo Logic page.

## What do I need to do?

There are no specific preparations or actions that customers need to take as a result of this deprecation and end-of-life. As of the end-of-life date, while GIS for Apache, GIS for Apache Tomcat and GIS for NGINX Apps will no longer be available in the Sumo Logic interface. Its removal will not have any effect on other existing features and functions that customers may be using.

For any additional questions please reach out to your Sumo Logic Account team or [open a support ticket](https://support.sumologic.com/support/s/) with our Customer Support Team.