---
title: Apps, Solutions, and Collection Integrations - March Release
image: https://assets-www.sumologic.com/company-logos/_800x418_crop_center-center_82_none/SumoLogic_Preview_600x600.jpg?mtime=1617040082
keywords:
  - release-note
  - march
hide_table_of_contents: true    
---

### New Release

We’re excited to announce the release of the following apps for Sumo Logic.

- **Amazon SageMaker**. The Amazon SageMaker app provide insights into CloudTrail, CloudWatch Logs, and performance metrics for your Amazon SageMaker service. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/amazon-sagemaker/).
- **Azure Firewall**. The Azure Firewall app enables centralized visibility into firewall health, network and application rules, threat intelligence, and IDPS events. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-firewall/).
- **Azure Subscription**. The Azure Subscription app centralizes the collection and analysis of activity logs, enhancing security, operational visibility, and compliance monitoring. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-subscription/).
- **Data Volume for MSSP**. The Data Volume for MSSP app provides centralized visibility into data usage across child organizations by type, tier, category, and source. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/data-volume-mssp/).
- **Apache Hadoop - OpenTelemetry**. The Apache Hadoop - OpenTelemetry app delivers end-to-end visibility into cluster health, performance, and resource utilization through logs and metrics. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/bigdata/opentelemetry/apache-hadoop-opentelemetry/).
- **OpenLLMetry**. The OpenLLMetry app enables end-to-end observability of LLM applications by collecting traces, metrics, and events across prompts, responses, latency, and errors. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/aiml/opentelemetry/openllmetry/).

### Enhancements

We’ve enhanced multiple Sumo Logic apps to improve visibility, usability, and proactive monitoring with refreshed queries, localized dashboards, and new monitor alerts.

- **Abnormal Security**. Added monitor alerts to accelerate incident response and updated the existing dashboards to enhance panel queries. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/abnormal-security/).
- **AWS Lambda Extension**. The Sumo Logic AWS Lambda Extension [v1.4.0](https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-lambda-extensions/releases/tag/v1.4.0) now supports Lambda managed instance runtime and adds deployment support for two new AWS regions: `ca-west-1` and `eusc-de-east-1`. This update enhances runtime compatibility and expands regional availability, enabling more flexible and scalable deployments. [Learn more](/docs/send-data/collect-from-other-data-sources/collect-aws-lambda-logs-extension/).
- **Azure Security**. Updated the [Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-security-microsoft-defender-for-cloud-apps/) and [Microsoft Entra ID Protection](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure-security-microsoft-entra-id-protection/) apps with refreshed content and new monitor alerts.
- **Cato Networks**. Updated the Cato Networks app with enhanced dashboard panels and monitor alerts to ensure rapid incident response and regulatory compliance. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/cato-networks/).
- **Cisco Meraki - C2C**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Network Traffic Overview** dashboard to enable continuous tracking of network traffic patterns, insecure port usage, and geo-based risks in Cisco Meraki, helping quickly detect anomalies and strengthen network security. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/cisco-meraki-c2c/).
- **AWS CloudTrail**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Root User Monitoring** dashboard to provide real-time visibility and detection of high-risk root user activities and critical security events in your AWS environment. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/cloudtrail/).
- **Duo Security**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Activity Events** dashboard and **Users Overview** dashboard to provide visibility into administrator activity and user security posture in Duo Security, helping strengthen overall access control. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/security-threat-detection/duo-security/).
- **Google Workspace**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Google Workspace - Alert Center - Mobile Device Management** dashboard and **Google Workspace - Alert Center - Admin Actions** dashboard to enable faster response and improved security posture n Google Workspace. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/google/workspace/install-app-dashboards/).
- **Microsoft Graph Azure AD Reporting**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Sign-Ins Security Overview** dashboard and **Provisioning Error Analysis** dashboard to provide comprehensive visibility into Azure AD authentication and provisioning activities, enabling faster detection and management of anomalies. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/microsoft-graph-azure-ad-reporting/).
- **Mimecast**. Added monitor alerts along with **Audit Events Overview**, **DLP Policy Monitoring**, **Hold Message Analysis**, **SIEM Logs - Overview**, **SIEM Logs - Threat Protection**, and **SIEM Logs - Email Processing and Delivery** dashboards to enhance visibility into email traffic, threat detection, and data loss, strengthening Mimecast security posture. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/mimecast/).
- **Microsoft Exchange Trace Logs**. Updated the following documentations:
  - **Microsoft Exchange Trace Logs source**. to use the Microsoft Graph API as the new data access endpoint, replacing the Office 365 reporting service that Microsoft will deprecate on April 8, 2026. [Learn more](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/cloud-to-cloud-integration-framework/microsoft-exchange-trace-logs).
  - **Microsoft Exchange Trace Logs app**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Security Overview** dashboard to provide insights into email security to quickly detect risks and suspicious patterns within your Microsoft Exchange Trace Logs environment. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/microsoft-exchange-trace-logs).
- **Netskope**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Admin Audit & Compliance** dashboard and **Watchlist & Insider Threat** dashboard to provide a deeper visibility into administrative activity and potential insider risks within your Netskope environment. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/security-threat-detection/netskope/).
- **Salesforce**. Added monitor alerts to strengthen security and updated the existing dashboards to enhance panel queries. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/salesforce/).
- **Sumo Logic Audit app**. Added the **Library Content - Monitors** dashboard to the Sumo Logic Audit app to provide insights into monitors usage based on users working with monitors, deletions, and notifications. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/audit/).
- **Workday**. Added monitor alerts along with the **Data Access and Exfiltration Risk** dashboard, **Security Posture** dashboard, and **Session Intelligence** dashboard to enable visibility into data access risks, security posture, and user session behavior in Workday. [Learn more](/docs/integrations/saas-cloud/workday/).
