---
title: 2018 Archive
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: /img/sumo-square.png
---

This is an archive of 2018 Collector Release Notes. The current Collector Release Notes are [here](/release-notes-collector).

### October 31, 2018 (19.227-15)
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8u192](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/8u192-relnotes-4479409.html).


### October 8, 2018 (19.227-14)
* Local and Remote File Sources on Linux systems now ignore `/var/log/(lastlog|btmp|wtmp)` binary files instead of ingesting them.
* Bug fix: Collecting metrics with a Docker Stats Source could cause high CPU usage.
* Bug fix: Added a missing dependency that was causing the Remote Windows Performance Monitor Log Source to not collect logs as expected.


### August 9, 2018 (19.227-12)
* Updated the Collector's cookie management policy to prepare for a receiver change.
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8u181](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/8u181-relnotes-4479407.html).


### July 16, 2018 (19.227-11)
* Bug fix: When configuring Docker Sources without environment variables or labels null pointer exceptions were not handled appropriately.
* Bug fix: Remote File Sources were scanning from the current directory instead of the root directory when using leading wildcards in paths.


### June 7, 2018 (19.227-4)
* Docker Stats Source can now be configured to ingest metrics time series instead of JSON log messages. See Docker Sources for details.
* Bug fix: Local and Remote Log File Sources were not immediately detecting new or modified files in certain nested directory structures when a wildcard was used in the path expression.
* Redundancy file added for Source configurations to prevent possible re-ingestion of data.
If you upgrade from version 19.209 to 19.216 or 19.227 on Mac OS X, you must manually restart the collector service after upgrading.


### May 16, 2018 (19.216-38)
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8u172](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/8u172-relnotes-4308893.html).
* Bug fix: Misconfigurations in data forwarding could lead to high CPU usage.
* Bug fix: Extremely large Windows event log entries in an event channel could cause collection to stop for that channel.


### May 1, 2018 (19.216-33)
* Enhanced metadata allowing you to customize `sourceCategory` and `sourceHost` with environment variables, labels, and tags. Docker tags welcome, For more information, see [Collect Logs and Stats from Docker](/docs/integrations/containers-orchestration/docker-community-edition#configure-sourcecategory-and-sourcehost-using-variables).
* Metrics support for Carbon 2.0 format has arrived with a new Source, Streaming Metrics. This will support Graphite format as well so our Graphite Source has been renamed. For more information, see [Streaming Metrics Source](/docs/send-data/installed-collectors/sources/streaming-metrics-source).
* Data Forwarding is now more reliable for HTTP and Syslog destinations. Data is queued on disk when in-memory fills instead of causing your system to run out of memory. To configure your data forwarding queue limits see [Archive Log Data to other destinations](/docs/manage/data-archiving/installed-collectors#Configure-data-forwarding-queue-size).
* SystemD is now the default init system on Linux distributions that support SystemD.
* Simplified installation for the Linux binary package as a result of an updated Tanuki wrapper. For more information, see [Install a Collector on Linux](/docs/send-data/installed-collectors/linux#Install_using_the_binary_package).

Known Issues

* Downgrading from version 19.216 to 19.209 is not supported due to 19.216 having a new Tanuki wrapper.
* When upgrading from version 19.209 to 19.216 on Ubuntu 16 and above using a shell executable file (.sh), Debian, or the Web UI you will need to [manually restart the collector service](/docs/send-data/collection/start-stop-collector-using-scripts) after upgrading.
* Upgrading Collectors without administrator privileges on Windows to 19.216 or higher will require a [manual upgrade installation](/docs/send-data/collection/upgrade-collectors).


### April 24, 2018 (19.209-41)

* Changes to upgrade codepaths in preparation for upcoming release.
* Bug fix: Collector unable to start after an upgrade when using a custom installation path on Windows 32-bit.


### March 5, 2018 (19.209-37)

* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8u162](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/8u162-relnotes-4021436.html).


### February 15, 2018 (19.216-22)
:::
Important
Version redacted
:::


* Enhanced metadata allowing you to customize sourceCategory and sourceHost with environment variables, labels, and tags. Docker tags welcome, For more information, see Collect Logs and Stats from Docker.
* Metrics support for Carbon 2.0 format has arrived with a new Source, Streaming Metrics. This will support Graphite format as well so our Graphite Source has been renamed. For more information, see Streaming Metrics Source.
* Data Forwarding is now more reliable for HTTP and Syslog destinations. Data is queued on disk when in-memory fills instead of causing your system to run out of memory. To configure your data forwarding queue limits see Forward Data from an Installed Collector.
* SystemD is now the default init system on Linux distributions that support SystemD.
* Simplified installation for the Linux binary package as a result of an updated Tanuki wrapper. For more information, see Install a Collector on Linux.
* Bundled JRE version upgraded to [8u162](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/8u162-relnotes-4021436.html).


### February 1, 2018 (19.209-26)
* Bug fix: Docker stats source failed to start and collect stats.
* Bug fix: Added a socket timeout when connecting to HTTP proxy servers to prevent the Collector from going offline.
