---
title: April 15, 2025 - Content Release
hide_table_of_contents: true
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
keywords:
  - automation service
  - cloud soar
  - soar
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

## March and April releases

### Changes and enhancements

#### Integrations

* [NEW] [ThreatDown Oneview](/docs/platform-services/automation-service/app-central/integrations/threatdown-oneview/). The ThreatDown OneView integration has been built from scratch to facilitate seamless security operations management. 
* [NEW] [Atlassian Jira Cloud](/docs/platform-services/automation-service/app-central/integrations/atlassian-jira-cloud/). The Atlassian Jira Cloud integration has been developed from the ground up to streamline issue tracking and project management. 
* [UPDATED] [AWS WAF](/docs/platform-services/automation-service/app-central/integrations/aws-waf/). Added a new Update IP Set action in the AWS WAF integration that allows users to update an existing IP set.

#### Platform 

##### Playbooks

* Improved the user experience in the node popup when loading dynamic fields.
* Added a confirmation dialog to alert users about pre-existing playbook drafts to avoid accidental overwriting while editing playbooks.
* Implemented an alert popup to prevent accidental loss of unsaved changes when closing a node popup.
* Added audit logs for failed nodes due to errors or exceptions during playbook execution.

### Bug fixes

#### General

* Fixed a session timeout issue when the user is active in Automation Service but inactive in Sumo Logic Log Analytics.
* Fixed cursor positioning issue while typing in text areas.

#### Integrations

* Resolved a next page token and pageSize related issues in the List Permissions action of the  [Google Drive](/docs/platform-services/automation-service/app-central/integrations/google-drive/) integration.
* Added a new `impersonate_user` field in List Permission and Delete Permission actions, allowing actions to be performed on a user's behalf.