docs/integrations/index.md, before:

---
slug: /integrations
title: App Catalog
description: Documentation for Sumo Logic apps and integrations.
tags: [app, app catalog]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/integrations.png')} alt="icon" width="50"/>

This category has documentation for Sumo Logic apps, which you can find in our **App Catalog**. Apps help you get started gaining insights from your data sources by providing example searches and dashboards for common use cases. They are customized with your source configurations and populated in a folder selected by you. Feel free to edit them to get the results you want.

Several of the guides below are partner-specific: Amazon/AWS, Microsoft/Azure, and Google. The rest of the app content is organized by functionality. We support a wide variety of data sources.

To determine if an app is supported by your pricing plan, see [Apps and Sumo Logic Account Plans](/docs/integrations/account-plans).

<div className="box-wrapper" markdown="1">
<div className="box smallbox1 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/"><img src='https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/93/Amazon_Web_Services_Logo.svg' alt="Thumbnail icon" width="65"/>
  <h4>Amazon/AWS</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for Amazon and AWS products.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox2 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>
  <h4>Microsoft/Azure</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for Microsoft and Azure.</p>
  </div>
</div>
  <div className="box smallbox3 card">
    <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/google/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="40"/>
    <h4>Google</h4></a>
    <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for Google products, such as Workspace.</p>
  </div>
</div>
    <div className="box smallbox4 card">
    <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/databases"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/databases/databases-icon.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="55"/>
    <h4>Database Servers</h4></a>
    <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for database servers, such as Oracle and MongoDB.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox5 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/containers-orchestration"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/containers.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>
  <h4>Containers</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for container management, such as Kubernetes and Docker.</p>
  </div>
  </div>
<div className="box smallbox6 card">
    <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/web-servers/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/web-servers.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/><h4>Web Servers</h4></a>
    <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for web servers, such as Apache, Nginx, and Squid Proxy.</p>
  </div>
</div>
  <div className="box smallbox7 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/cloud-security-monitoring-analytics/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/security/security.png')} alt="icon" width="45"/><h4>Cloud Security Monitoring/Analytics</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for cloud security data source.</p>
  </div>
 </div>
<div className="box smallbox8 card">
   <div className="container">
   <a href="/docs/integrations/saml/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/saml/saml.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/><h4>SAML</h4></a>
   <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for SAML.</p>
   </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox9 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/saas-cloud"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/business/SaaS.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="40"/><h4>SaaS/Cloud</h4></a>
  <p>Learn about Sumo Logic apps for SaaS and Cloud applications.</p>
 </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox10 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/hosts-operating-systems"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/hosts-operating-systems/hosts.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/><h4>Hosts and Operating Systems</h4></a>
  <p>Monitor host metrics and the Linux OS.</p>
  </div>
 </div>
<div className="box smallbox11 card">
   <div className="container">
   <a href="/docs/integrations/security-threat-detection"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/security/detect-insider-threats.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="45"/><h4>Security and Threat Detection</h4></a>
   <p>Learn about Sumo apps for Security and Threat Detection.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox12 card">
  <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/app-development"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/operations/app-stack.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/><h4>App Development</h4></a>
    <p>Monitor your platforms and tools that support software development and automation.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox13 card">
  <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/global-intelligence"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/global-intelligence/gis.svg')} alt="icon" width="35"/><h4>Global Intelligence</h4></a>
    <p>Sumo Logic apps for Global Intelligence provide valuable real-time security intelligence.</p>
    </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox14 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/sumo-apps/sumoapps.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="60"/><h4>Sumo Logic Apps</h4></a>
  <p>Use these apps to monitor your Sumo Logic org activities and data volume.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox15 card">
   <div className="container">
   <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/security/PCI-compliance.png')} alt="PCI Compliance icon" width="45"/><h4>PCI Compliance</h4></a>
   <p>Meet evolving PCI requirements without the data hassle.</p>
   </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox16 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/PartnerEcosystem.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="70"/><h4>Partner Ecosystem Apps</h4></a>
  <p>Third-party Sumo Logic apps for partners including Auth0, CircleCI, and more.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox17 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/partner-integrations.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="70"/><h4>Partner Integrations</h4></a>
  <p>Sumo Logic Partner Integrations are provided and supported by our partner network. </p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<br/>

:::tip
To interact with other Sumo Logic users, post feedback, or ask a question, visit the [Sumo Logic Community Apps and Integrations Forum](https://support.sumologic.com/hc/en-us/community/topics/200263058-Applications-and-Integrations). ​
:::

Commit message:

Next-Gen apps docs & release notes (GA: week ending 6/23) (#2587)
* Create 2023-06-15-next-gen_apps.md

Release note for the new App Catalog an Next-Gen Apps.

* Rename 2023-06-15-next-gen_apps.md to 2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

Title change (replaced underscore w/hyphen)

* Update blog-service/2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update blog-service/2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update blog-service/2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

* Update 2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

Fix casing of "apps"

* Update 2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

- Update the Post title to be  “June 15, 2023 (Service)”
- Add a couple of additional tags
- Create a section header for the Next Gen Apps
- Create a section header for Minor Changes and Enhancements, and included the additional update.

* Update blog-service/2023-06-15-next-gen-apps.md

* Separated Apps/API release notes and merged Next-Gen app content

* fix

* Delete 2023-06-15-api.md

* Update docs/get-started/apps-integrations.md

* Update and rename 2023-06-15-apps.md to 2023-07-05-apps.md

* Update docs/get-started/apps-integrations.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Kim <56411016+kimsauce@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: John Pipkin (Sumo Logic) <jpipkin@sumologic.com>

docs/integrations/index.md, after:

---
slug: /integrations
title: App Catalog
description: Documentation for Sumo Logic apps and integrations.
tags: [app, app catalog]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/integrations.png')} alt="icon" width="50"/>

This category has documentation for Sumo Logic apps, which you can find in our **App Catalog**. Apps help you get started gaining insights from your data sources by providing example searches and dashboards for common use cases. They are customized with your source configurations and populated in a folder selected by you. Feel free to edit them to get the results you want.

Several of the guides below are partner-specific: Amazon/AWS, Microsoft/Azure, and Google. The rest of the app content is organized by functionality. We support a wide variety of data sources.

Learn the difference between [Next-Gen Apps and Classic Apps](/docs/get-started/apps-integrations/#next-gen-apps).

To determine if an app is supported by your pricing plan, see [Apps and Sumo Logic Account Plans](/docs/integrations/account-plans).

<div className="box-wrapper" markdown="1">
<div className="box smallbox1 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/amazon-aws/"><img src='https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/93/Amazon_Web_Services_Logo.svg' alt="Thumbnail icon" width="65"/>
  <h4>Amazon/AWS</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for Amazon and AWS products.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox2 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/microsoft-azure/azure.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>
  <h4>Microsoft/Azure</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for Microsoft and Azure.</p>
  </div>
</div>
  <div className="box smallbox3 card">
    <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/google/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="40"/>
    <h4>Google</h4></a>
    <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for Google products, such as Workspace.</p>
  </div>
</div>
    <div className="box smallbox4 card">
    <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/databases"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/databases/databases-icon.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="55"/>
    <h4>Database Servers</h4></a>
    <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for database servers, such as Oracle and MongoDB.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox5 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/containers-orchestration"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/containers.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>
  <h4>Containers</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for container management, such as Kubernetes and Docker.</p>
  </div>
  </div>
<div className="box smallbox6 card">
    <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/web-servers/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/web-servers/web-servers.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/><h4>Web Servers</h4></a>
    <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for web servers, such as Apache, Nginx, and Squid Proxy.</p>
  </div>
</div>
  <div className="box smallbox7 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/cloud-security-monitoring-analytics/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/security/security.png')} alt="icon" width="45"/><h4>Cloud Security Monitoring/Analytics</h4></a>
  <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for cloud security data source.</p>
  </div>
 </div>
<div className="box smallbox8 card">
   <div className="container">
   <a href="/docs/integrations/saml/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/saml/saml.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/><h4>SAML</h4></a>
   <p>A guide to Sumo Logic apps for SAML.</p>
   </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox9 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/saas-cloud"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/business/SaaS.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="40"/><h4>SaaS/Cloud</h4></a>
  <p>Learn about Sumo Logic apps for SaaS and Cloud applications.</p>
 </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox10 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/hosts-operating-systems"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/hosts-operating-systems/hosts.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/><h4>Hosts and Operating Systems</h4></a>
  <p>Monitor host metrics and the Linux OS.</p>
  </div>
 </div>
<div className="box smallbox11 card">
   <div className="container">
   <a href="/docs/integrations/security-threat-detection"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/security/detect-insider-threats.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="45"/><h4>Security and Threat Detection</h4></a>
   <p>Learn about Sumo apps for Security and Threat Detection.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox12 card">
  <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/app-development"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/operations/app-stack.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/><h4>App Development</h4></a>
    <p>Monitor your platforms and tools that support software development and automation.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox13 card">
  <div className="container">
    <a href="/docs/integrations/global-intelligence"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/global-intelligence/gis.svg')} alt="icon" width="35"/><h4>Global Intelligence</h4></a>
    <p>Sumo Logic apps for Global Intelligence provide valuable real-time security intelligence.</p>
    </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox14 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/sumo-apps/sumoapps.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="60"/><h4>Sumo Logic Apps</h4></a>
  <p>Use these apps to monitor your Sumo Logic org activities and data volume.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox15 card">
   <div className="container">
   <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/icons/security/PCI-compliance.png')} alt="PCI Compliance icon" width="45"/><h4>PCI Compliance</h4></a>
   <p>Meet evolving PCI requirements without the data hassle.</p>
   </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox16 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/PartnerEcosystem.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="70"/><h4>Partner Ecosystem Apps</h4></a>
  <p>Third-party Sumo Logic apps for partners including Auth0, CircleCI, and more.</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box smallbox17 card">
  <div className="container">
  <a href="/docs/integrations/sumo-apps/"><img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/partner-integrations.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="70"/><h4>Partner Integrations</h4></a>
  <p>Sumo Logic Partner Integrations are provided and supported by our partner network. </p>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

<br/>

:::tip
To interact with other Sumo Logic users, post feedback, or ask a question, visit the [Sumo Logic Community Apps and Integrations Forum](https://support.sumologic.com/hc/en-us/community/topics/200263058-Applications-and-Integrations). ​
:::
