---
title: 2023 Archive
image: https://help.sumologic.com/img/sumo-square.png
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';



This is an archive of 2023 Collector Release Notes. To view the full archive, [click here](/release-notes-collector/archive).

<!--truncate-->

---
### November 13, 2023 - Version 19.467-2

In this release, we've enhanced the security and stability of the Collector with added support for security patches and bug fixes.

#### Security Fixes

- Upgraded collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version 8.392.08.1**.
- Upgraded `org.apache.commons:commons-compress` to version 1.24.0 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2023-42503).
- Upgraded `org.xerial.snappy:snappy-java` to 1.1.10.4 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2023-43642).
- Upgraded `org.bouncycastle:bc-fips` to 1.0.2.4 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2022-45146).
- Upgraded `com.google.crypto.tink:tink` to 1.11.0 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2022-3510 and CVE-2022-3509).

#### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the AWS archive temporary files clean up issue on Windows. If you are facing this issue while upgrading from a previous collector version then a collector restart might be necessary after the upgrade.
- Fixed temporary files issue in Windows installation.

---
### October 26, 2023 - Version 19.461-1

In this release, we've resolved the collector start issue that was occurring after the Windows feature update. For collectors running as custom user, refer to the [Advanced UI Installer Settings](/docs/send-data/installed-collectors/collector-installation-reference/advanced-ui-installer-settings#provide-full-control-access-for-custom-user) to provide full access to custom user.


---
### August 22, 2023 - Version 19.456-3

In this release, we've enhanced our Collector security and stability by adding support for security patches and bug fixes.

#### Security Fixes

- Upgraded collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version 8.382.05.1**.
- When installed collector sends data to the backend receiver use `zstd compression` to improve the speed and compression rate.
- Upgraded `org.xerial.snappy:snappy-java` to version 1.1.10.1 to address the known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2023-34455, CVE-2023-34453, and CVE-2023-34454).

#### Bug Fixes

- Fixed the Docker duplication issue.


---
### July 11, 2023 - Version 19.451-1

* **Bug fix**. Log level for message `AppendStringInfo` is updated from info to debug.
* **Security fix**. Upgraded `org.json:json` to version 20230227 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2022-45688).

---
### May 23, 2023 - Version 19.441-2

In this release, we've upgraded the collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version 8.372.07.1** to enhance reliability and stability, and optimized performance for faster execution.

---
### May 5, 2023 - Version 19.441-1

In this release, we've enhanced the security and stability of Collector with added support for security patches and bug fixes.

#### Bug Fixes

* Resolved a Windows event ingestion issue that occurred after a Windows upgrade.

#### Security Fixes

* Upgraded `org.bouncycastle` to Version 1.0.2.3 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2020-26939 and CVE-2020-15522).
* Upgraded `com.fasterxml.jackson.core:jackson-databind` to version 2.14.1 to address known security vulnerabilities (CVE-2022-42003 and CVE-2022-42004).
* Upgraded `jersey-common` to version 2.38 to address a known security vulnerability (CVE-2021-28168).
* Resolved an issue where `sourcehost` for installed syslog did not display the hostname for some hosts.
* Upgraded `docker-java` to the latest version to ensure product security.
* Added new docker images specifically for the **arm64** architecture.


---
### April 20, 2023 - Version 19.418-8

We're pleased to announce that the bridge version now offers enhanced support for the BCTLS FIPS upgrade.


---
### March 15, 2023 - Version 19.418-7

In this release, we've enhanced the security and stability of Collector with added support for security patch and bug fix.

 * **Security Fix**. Upgraded collector JRE to **Amazon Corretto Version 8.362.08.1**.
 * **Bug Fix**. JSON special characters in Active Directory objects are now properly represented in JSON format for reliable application performance.
